Durban – IFP President Emeritus and parliamentary leader Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi has laid into KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala for ridiculing him in public after he allegedly told the Children’s Parliament that Buthelezi was incomprehensible because he stammers. Before making his party contribution following Thursday’s Budget Vote by President Cyril Ramaphosa, Buthelezi asked for a moment to address Zikalala’s alleged ridiculing of his speech. “Before I speak to this Budget, allow me to check with the president whether he is able to understand me. Am I speaking clearly enough, Your Excellency? Or is my ‘speech impediment’ causing difficulties? “I ask, because your premier in KwaZulu-Natal has publicly ridiculed me, telling the Children’s Parliament that the traditional Prime Minister to the Zulu Monarch and nation is incomprehensible, because he stammers.  “He even did a lively impersonation, encouraging the children of the Zulu Kingdom to mock the King’s Prime Minister,” Buthelezi said. He also lamented that Zikalala poked fun at his speech in the presence of his eldest daughter Princess Phumzile Buthelezi, who is also the chairperson of the IFP Women’s Brigade. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “What kind of a leader is that? A leader who gets into drunken brawls in public, embarrassing his party, his office and our country.  “It pains me that Africa’s oldest liberation movement is discredited by leaders of premier’s Zikalala’s ilk,” Buthelezi said. He was making reference to Zikalala’s alleged assault of former Ukhozi FM radio presenter Ngizwe Mchunu on Saturday during the Ingoma Ka Zwelonke Festival held at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. The two men have since both opened cases of assault and crimen injuria against each in the wake of the incident, during which it is alleged Zikalala was drunk. “I take it personally, because when President Kenneth Kaunda, on behalf of the Front-line leaders, asked me to found a membership-based organisation in 1974, Oliver Tambo immediately approved.  “Thus, from the start, I stated that Inkatha was rooted in the ideals of the ANC laid by its founding fathers in 1912. “The credibility of the ANC, and of the government, is continually being compromised as leaders are implicated in scandals, corruption, abuses of power, and behaviour that tears apart the moral fabric of South Africa.  “When leaders show no respect and act like hooligans, how can we be surprised when anarchy erupts?” Buthelezi said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE