Durban - In celebration of the national day of Russia, the Russian ambassador to South Africa Ilya Rogachev is hosting various influential South Africans at his residence in Pretoria on Monday. The spokesperson for the embassy Alexander Arefiev has confirmed  that a cocktail party had been arranged, and guests from various sectors of the country would join the Russian officials in the capital city. Russia Day also known as the Day of adoption of the declaration of state sovereignty of the Russian Soviet Federation Socialist Republic (RSFSR) before 2002, is the national holiday of the Russian Federation. It has been celebrated annually on June 12, since 1992. The passage of this Declaration by the First Congress of People's Deputies marked the beginning of constitutional reforms in the Russian Soviet state. On Sunday, President Vladimir Putin said: “This public holiday is dedicated to our homeland, filled with pride for its history, faith in its future. Today we especially keenly realise the importance of staying united. This unity and loyalty to Motherland are what our ancestors bequeathed to us”. In a statement released on Monday by the Russian embassy in Pretoria, the embassy stated that a multipolar world was emerging and the process is already an objective reality. “The era of centuries-long Western dominance is getting blown away with the wind of change, making way for something new and better. “A multipolar world that is based on the rule of international law (not “rules-based order” with the so-called “rules” that get constantly rewritten to benefit the West) and principles of mutual respect, sovereignty, and equality of states. The unprecedented anti-Russian campaign, launched by the West, is nothing but an evident attempt to preserve the unipolar system and the West's privileged position in the international arena. A position which it has been abusing for a very long time, in particular, to redistribute the world product in its favour,” read the statement. This year’s celebrations come amid Russia’s war with the Ukraine. Daily News