Durban - Opposition parties have accused the ANC of using its muscle as the majority party in the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature to honour only its leaders, warning that such a move would continue to drive a wedge in the province. The IFP was the first to raise its concern this week about what it labelled as the alienation of some veteran KZN Legislature members, who are deserving of being honoured with centenary celebrations. IFP Member of Provincial Legislature (MPL) Blessed Gwala questioned the criteria used to select the candidates who were honoured, contending that the first KZN Legislature Speaker after the 1994 democratic elections Gideon Mdlalose from the IFP deserved recognition. He would have turned 100 years old in January this year. “We, as the IFP, feel that the KZN Legislature is applying double standards and has become increasingly partisan by prioritising certain individuals at the expense of others. We have seen the KZN Legislature honouring the late Themba Harry Gwala with a memorial lecture about his life, which took place on December 15, 2020 in the legislature,” said Gwala who is also the party’s chief whip. He noted how in 2021, as part of Women’s Month, the KZN Legislature held a Women’s Month webinar to celebrate ANC activist Charlotte Maxeke, followed by the renaming of the KZN Department of Social Development’s offices on Dr Goonam Street in Durban in her honour. “It seems the ANC is hell-bent on dismissing the lives and legacies of other senior leaders who were members of the KZN Legislature. The IFP believes there are other members who were not considered, but who deserve an honour of this magnitude,” the MPL contended. Gwala also noted that in 2020 ANC stalwart Ishmael Meer, the husband of Professor Fatima Meer, had been shunned while deserving to be honoured, labelling the move as unfortunate, and a dismal failure by the ANC to uphold its own principles on the basis of colour and creed. “We demand answers from the KZN Legislature Speaker, Honourable Nontembeko Boyce. She must provide clarity as to why Mdlalose has not been celebrated. “From the beginning, we were sceptical about whether the ANC would be trustworthy and consistent with this programme,” said Gwala. EFF leader in KZN Vusi Khoza said the party had called for a clear policy on how people were honoured at the legislature. Boyce, who is at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association event in Sierra Leone, said she would comment on her return to SA. ANC KZN spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela had not responded by the time of going to print. THE MERCURY