Durban — Following the withdrawal of ward 9 councillor Nonsikelelo Msomi's bodyguards and a subsequent attempt on her life last week, local youth have taken her safety into their own hands. A group of youth from Molweni township, west of Durban, are camping outside the councillor's home day and night to protect her from possible attackers. One of the youth organisers, Sabelo Lwandle, told the Daily News that after the attempt to kill the councillor, and knowing that her bodyguards had been taken away by eThekwini Municipality, they decided to protect her. He said they were disturbed by the municipality's decision to withdraw the bodyguards since they knew that Msomi had never been safe since she was elected in November last year because she had been receiving death threats. “Councillor Msomi is us and we are her, so we cannot allow her to be intimidated by people who do not want her to deliver services. We elected her because we felt she would deliver services to us … We will defend her with our bodies,” said Lwandle. Msomi said she was grateful for the support of the ward 9 youth and the support she received after she was attacked. She said her problems started soon after winning the ward, saying that she started receiving death threats from people who called her a traitor. She said one morning she found a letter in her yard calling her a traitor and her house was subsequently stoned. She said she then found a bullet on her bedroom window and realised the threats were serious, and the municipality provided her with bodyguards. The municipality then conducted an assessment of the threat she faced which “came back negative last month”. The municipality then took away her bodyguards, which she said had left her vulnerable and unable to attend public meetings because she feared for her life. The ward, which includes Molweni township, Wushini and parts of KwaNgcolosi under inkosi Bhekisisa Ngcobo, was previously held by the ANC but in last year's local government elections, it was snatched by Msomi for the DA. The party's provincial deputy chairperson, Sithembiso Ngema, commended Molweni youth and ward 9 residents for the support they were giving Msomi, saying it proved she served the community. To comment on the story send a WhatsApp message to our Backchat column at 071 485 7995. Daily News