AFTER some cajoling and encouragement from family and close associates, Dharma Naidoo, whose grandparents came to South Africa as indentured workers, has spoken out about how he overcame adversity to achieve many successes in life. Naidoo penned his book titled This Is My Story: If You Can Imagine It, You Can Achieve It, which was launched at his 80th birthday celebration last month. He details how he radically altered his life’s course from being a farmhand, to securing the position of technical manager at a reputable manufacturing company, and achieving academic qualifications along the way. Against the odds, Naidoo completed his schooling, largely as a part-time pupil, and then achieved a BSc degree. His other academic achievements include a diploma in business management from Damelin College and, in 1987, he completed his masters degree in business leadership. Naidoo also had to dodged police officers from the security branch to advance his political activism. Since retirement in 2005, he continues to serve humanity via the Sathya Sai’s education programmes. He is a board member on the religious organisation’s education council. Naidoo’s was born in Ridgeview, on the fringes of Queensburgh. A few years later, his family moved a few kilometres away to a wood and iron home in Cavendish. Fond Cavendish memories include cultivating flowers and vegetables in their garden with his siblings, which his mother sold at the “Indian Market” in Durban’s CBD. In his few years of formal schooling Naidoo always excelled. After a few months in Grade 1 (Class 1), his teachers at the Bayview Primary School promoted him to Grade 2. He also received similar promotions even when he continued his primary phase of schooling in Cliffdale. Naidoo’s father believed that working the fields was the way to go for his children, much like the Amish lifestyle. But a life changing moment occurred in 1958 while he herded animals with his two older brothers. He noticed a tree with ripened paw-paws, which he couldn’t resist. Naidoo fell from the tree he climbed and badly injured his right arm, which got him admitted to Durban’s King Edward Hospital. During his five-week stay, he got especially friendly with 59-year-old Harry Narain Pillay, who planted the idea of working and studying in his head. Naidoo only had a Grade 7 education at the time and worked full-time on his parents leased farmland. He successful in convincing his parents to let him live with an uncle in Mayville and find work in Durban’s CBD. Naidoo's first job was as a thread-picker in a clothing factory. At the same time he enrolled for Grade 8 night classes at Sastri College. He moved from job to job and also sold sandwiches at one point, just to ensure he could complete his schooling. His determination helped him secure passes after jumping from Grade 8 to 10 and likewise from Grade 10 to 12. He realised getting a matric pass was no breeze.  Naidoo worked at King Edward Hospital as an admin clerk by then. Securing a job at the University College of Durban in 1961, which was reserved for Indians and set on Salisbury Island, was a pivotal time in Naidoo’s life. Not only did his political activism increase, he also received great support and encouragement from various people with completing his matric and BSc degree. An important meeting was with the institution’s rector, which led to him getting a job in the laboratory and working with the head of the physics department. His first job away from the university was with Beyer Cape Leathers as a production chemist. Naidoo climbed the corporate ladder over the years. In 1979, he joined Masonite Africa Ltd, based in Estcourt, as their plant chemist. At retirement in April 2005, he finished as their technical manager. Naidoo, who lives in Queensburgh, appreciated his wife Karunamah’s (“Baby”) unstinting support. Tomorrow, they celebrate their 52nd wedding anniversary. He wrote the book largely to “leave a legacy for my children, grandchildren and great grandchildren… for them to know who I was and what made me tick”. This Is My Story is available at most online book stores. SUNDAY TRIBUNE