Durban - Cable theft and illegal electricity connections are having a destructive impact on the eThekwini Municipality’s finances, with revelations that the city has incurred more than R800 million in losses as a result. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda recently detailed the impact of cable theft, saying, “we lost over R800m as a result of power and cable theft”. The amount could be far higher as the calculations do not include the impact of outages as a result of theft. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the situation was serious and communities should help the city by reporting those involved. “These costs exclude consequential losses due to production losses and inconvenience to customers. R800m is inclusive of cable and infrastructure theft for the city’s Electricity Unit. Stolen cables are sold for scrap while the city must spend more to replace it. He said the amount related to the past financial year. “Hot spots for cable theft mushroom every day as this scourge persists but it is mostly rife at informal settlements across the city. “The city loses millions of rand every year from cable theft. We urge all citizens to demonstrate civic pride and a sense of co-ownership of resources and assets by reporting any information they may have on these incidents in their community. “Acts of vandalism and theft taking place in our communities cannot be addressed by the municipality and police alone.” Opposition parties said the city seemed to lack political will to address the theft, saying addressing especially cable theft, started with dealing with the issue of homelessness as some homeless people had allegedly been involved. DA councillor Mzamo Billy said the issue of cable theft was serious. “In the oThongathi area, theft is truly concerning. The cables get stolen, they get replaced, and they are stolen again. The issue needs to be addressed with law-enforcement agencies as the culprits are known to the community. We are faced with a problem of electricity theft and cable theft and there seems to be no plan to address this matter,” he said. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said the city might have a theft problem but there was no political will to address it. He said a large part of the problems emanated from allowing people to loiter around the city and some of them got involved in crimes like cable theft. Meanwhile, Kaunda also detailed other initiatives to connect more residents to the grid, adding that the move could help ease the problem of electricity theft via illegal connections. “We are also home to over 500 informal settlements for which we are providing all basic services including electricity. For the 2022/23 financial year, the municipality will electrify 24 settlements which include Mshayazafe, Amatikwe, Tshelimyama, Emmaus and Bottlebrush at an estimated cost of R51 million,” he said. THE MERCURY