Durban – Four suspects were nabbed while transporting four goats suspected to have been stolen in the Pietermaritzburg area on Tuesday. Mi7 National Group spokesperson Colin David said the arrests came after their crime analytics over the past six weeks, showed a rapid increase in the rate of business robberies in the Pietermaritzburg CBD.  It was also well publicised in the local media, with businesses falling victim to armed robbers on a regular basis – and the same modus operandi being used. “Mi7 National Group has not taken this lightly.  “To respond to this threat, a task team was quickly established comprising members of Mi7’s Strategic Threat Response Unit.  “The teams have been patrolling the CBD in unmarked vehicles throughout the day, and acting on intelligence from informants to track down known suspects,” David said. He said that earlier on Tuesday, information regarding the location of a vehicle matching the description of one used in a recent business robbery in the CBD. “Our teams worked quickly to track down the vehicle and bring it to a stop.  “Of the three individuals inside, one was found in possession of a gas gun.  “The individuals were handed to the police for questioning, but no arrests have been made thus far,” David said. “Then, a few hours later, the team spotted another vehicle matching the same description of that which was used in other crimes in the CBD.  “Our members followed the vehicle and brought it to a halt when the driver began acting suspiciously.  “Inside, four suspects were found along with four live goats alleged to be stolen.  “The matter was handed over to the police, whose Stock Theft Unit officers linked two suspects to previous arrests for stock theft.” David added that the vehicle was impounded. He said that their Task Team would continue to work in the CBD area until the robberies are brought to a stop. “We believe further arrests are imminent,” David said. The police had not commented by the time of publication. Daily News