Durban — Footage shared on Facebook showing at least eight men smashing four windows of a double-cab bakkie stopped at a red traffic light, and proceeding to grab items from inside, saw some suggest that motorists carry firearms. The owner of the footage who shared it, captioned it as having taken place in Joburg, In it, the vehicle coming to a halt next to a Toyota Quantum, when the traffic light turns red. As soon as the car stops, a man walking in the road signals to three others behind him, and they all run to the car, with the man who signalled the others being the first to smash the driver’s side window. The other men go and smash the windows on the passenger side, as more men enter the video’s frame running to the car. One of them smashes the back passenger window behind the driver with his elbow after the object with which he tried to smash the window, fails. The man pulls a black bag through the back passenger window and after placing it under his one arm, he proceeds to attempt to open the door which is locked. Seeing what’s happening another man – a pedestrian in a blue jacket – runs to the vehicle as well to join the men attacking from the front passenger side. The man who smashed the driver’s side window remains there throughout the commission of the crime, even looking at the taxi which pulls up at the traffic light. He is seen pulling things out of the driver’s hands. Before they all leave the driver alone, the man drops something and the driver gets out to pick it up before taking a moment and then driving off. The footage which also shows a bird’s-eye view of the crime shows other cars stopping and driving off during the incident. Reacting to the video, Twoboys Stritkid Nyembe wrote that situations like these called for drivers to keep their guns close and ready to fire. “This is sheer disrespect. We have to keep our weapons close, and hit and watch them fall,” wrote Lulu Siphiwe Siphiwe. Sylvester BK Mdluly wrote that the men in the video deserved a bullet. “That’s why you must never be without a gun when travelling in areas such as these,” wrote Ntokozo Nxumalo. Daily News