KwaZulu-Natal - The KwaDukuza Municipality is set to create employment for more than 500 people, with the majority benefiting from the Mavivane Transformative Riverine Management Programme. The municipality says the programme has been made possible by the R1.7 million grant funding from the KZN Department of Economic Development Tourism and Environmental Affairs (KZN EDTEA), which will see KwaDukuza Municipality create 500 jobs while addressing the impact of climate change. The municipality was the first runner-up to the KZN EDTEA 2021/22 Natural Resource Management Municipality Competition for the Mavivane Transformative Riverine Management Programme. “KwaDukuza has a central role to play in championing and coordinating a transformative riverine governance approach as a mechanism for leveraging the required response to climate change and resilience for its citizens. This project will demonstrate the important ecological, social, and economic benefits of rehabilitating river catchments in shielding the municipality from vulnerable citizens and businesses from escalating disaster risks and costs associated with climate change”, said Mayor Lindile Nhaca. The project will employ a total of 275 youth, with five interns, twenty team leaders and at least 475 general workers. The municipality says the Executive Council adopted several programmes aimed at empowering local youth during June. Nhaca said they want to use the month of June to enable young people to further consolidate their vision with the youth of 1976 in sharpening democracy and in leading the way towards building a nation that is prosperous and united. Also being launched this month by the KwaDukuza Municipality is the Youth Month Gender-Based Violence Awareness Campaign and the Youth Month Talent Show. “We want to send a clear message that we will be coming all out, working with different sector departments, the civil society, traditional leaders and inter-faith groups in condemning this scourge,” said Nhaca. Nhaca says the talent show event will attract various forms of talent ranging from musicians, poets and fine artists.  “We will use our internal database to source the participants, to give them an opportunity to present and market their work. We are responding directly to the plight of young people who are in desperate need for opportunities. We will host this show on 26 June 2022 at the KwaDukuza Town Hall,” she said. THE MERCURY