DURBAN - THE National Freedom party (NFP) has threatened to lead the “mother of all protests” should eThekwini Municipality proceed with its plans to charge rural residents for services. “We would bring eThekwini to a grinding halt if the city persists in forcing rural residents to pay rates, National Freedom Party cautions the city against this move,” the party said in a statement. The municipality stated recently that it is engaging with the Ingonyama Trust on charging residents living on its land for services. The municipality is concerned that it is providing services to such areas but the residents are not paying. Tabling the city’s budget last week, mayor Mxolisi Kaunda revealed that they had agreed that rural residents residing under the municipality should pay a R100 flat rate for the services rendered by the city. But the NFP has rejected the move. “We would not allow that to happen. The mayor and his exco (executive committee) must forget. Not a single rural resident would pay a cent. “There’s no way rural people would be subjected to this scandalous move. Rural people only receive limited services, which is water and electricity. Even for the two, they pay. Therefore, for the city to come out with such a calculated move to solicit money from residents is unacceptable. “The people who should pay for the rates are those rich individuals who receive maximum services, including refuse collection, cutting of grass, patching of potholes. Unfortunately, none of these services are rendered in rural areas yet the city wants poor residents to pay. “If the city goes ahead with this, we would render it ungovernable. It’s an insult. We would therefore mobilise residents to rise up against this money-making scheme by the city.” The NFP said it plans to meet with amakhosi and izinduna so that this move can be halted. “Traditional leadership has the responsibility to protect the interests of their inhabitants. Therefore, we would be asking the traditional leaders not to permit this scandalous proposal,” the party said. MOST READ: Driver shot in hijacking, bullet-riddled vehicle found abandoned in KwaMashu Durban family devastated after dismembered body of missing girl, 6, found floating in an uMhlanga beach THE MERCURY