Durban - Police in KwaZulu-Natal have found no link of Sthabiso Dladla, deputy mayor of Inkosi Langalibalele Local Municipality, to a cash-in-transit heist that took place in Estcourt on Wednesday. This comes after the Democratic Alliance’s (DA) Member of Parliament, Alf Lees, alleged that a police report places Dladla at the centre of the heist and called for his resignation with immediate effect. However, in a twist of the allegations levelled against Dladla, Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Thandi Mbambo said they had not positively linked Dladla to anything as yet. She could not not be drawn to further comment on the matter saying that investigations were currently underway adding that they would comment further once completed.  Lees had claimed that according to a police report Dladla had been allegedly implicated in the planning of a cash-in-transit heist that took place on the R103 outside the town of Estcourt on June 8, 2022. He said that this information had apparently come to light after two suspects were apparently arrested on Friday.  He alleged that suspects apparently pointed out Dladla’s house as the place where the cash-in-transit heist was planned. “Apparently, Dladla also followed the vehicle that was ambushed on the day the cash-In-transit heist took place.” He further stated that police had found a 308 rifle, also suspected to have been used in other cash-in-transit heists, 17 x 308 calibre live rounds, explosives of some sort and cash that had been damaged by an explosion at Dladla’s home. The Hawks again could not be drawn to comment further on these allegations by the DA’s Lees. Despite the Hawks saying they could not positively link Dladla to the crime police had apparently not been able to contact him, Lees alleged.  “If Dladla failed to resign as the deputy mayor by June 15, 2022 the DA will submit a motion of no confidence in Dladla as deputy mayor on urgent basis, he said.  Thami Ntuli, IFP Provincial Chairperson, said they had only seen it on the media that Dladla was alleged to have been involved in the heist.  However, he stated that he was informed by their fellow member from Uthukela District the Hawks did visit Dladla’s home. “According to the Hawks report there was information relating to some people and car that was hidden in his home, but police could not find anything.  “Unfortunately they left him (Dladla) while he was in the municipal office and as a result they will be meeting him on Monday to discuss this matter. It’s a serious matter and as the IFP we are watching this matter closely,” Ntuli said. Contrary to what Lees said, Ntuli said that Dladla was not a fugitive from the law and that he was at his home. “The matter is being taken seriously by the IFP. Should there be confirmation of wrongdoing we will take appropriate steps,” Ntuli said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE