KwaZulu-Natal - The Ugu District Municipality on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast announced today that some areas supplied by different pump stations will experience low to no water supply while refurbishments take place. Among the affected parts of the municipality are the south central areas supplied by the St Helen’s Rock pump station where valve components of the pump station are being attended to in Durban. "The valve is expected to be reinstalled on Friday afternoon or Saturday morning. This means water is only pumped into the dam with the dam supplying the water works,“ wrote the municipality in a water update posted on its Facebook page. Other areas that are affected are those supplied by the Bhobhoyi water works which is sitting at 28% due to the works undergoing pipe reconfigurations as the municipality anticipates completion of the Marburg pipeline. The municipality says Margate extension 3 is experiencing low water pressure as more water has been pushed to Ramsgate, and the area will be back to full restoration during the day. “Skogheim and iZotsha areas are affected by a major leak at iZotsha pump station which is being attended this morning,” stated the municipality. Disgruntled residents have shared their annoyance with the ongoing water supply issues in the municipality. “But there is no water once again in Margate x3....every weekend we don’t have water really this isn't the way to treat your customers paying your salaries,” wrote a resident on Facebook. Another resident said there hasn’t been any water on Horse Shoe crescent, Melville for three months.  However the municipality says there are a number of areas where water supply has been fully restored or will be fully restored during the course of the day. According to the municipality, uMzimkhulu Reservoir is sitting above 70% and climbing.  “This is due to a burst in Sugar Mill road which has been isolated. There are many other leaks affecting supply to Tweni as a result a secondary feed has been opened with uMzimkhulu at high level”. UVongo, Shelly beach, Margate and Manaba Reservoirs remain in healthy levels with areas fully restored, the municipality said. “The Mellville Reservoir supplying areas from Pumula to Woodgrange is 91% and is being opened to recover areas in uMzumbe , Fairview, Woodgrange and Hibberdene as we expect full restoration before end of the day.” The municipality says the southern system is fairly stable with some areas in Ramsgate still affected. "The Ramsgate North Reservoir is on 76% and Ramsgate South reservoir is on above 20% and climbing . There was a delay of the main pipe valve which needed replacement after seeing the low rate of filling of the reservoir . The valve was replaced last night and enough water is now making its way to the reservoir.“ THE MERCURY