Durban - Queen’s Kitchen, a feeding scheme in Queensburgh, yesterday received a new kitchen facility, courtesy of the East Coast Radio (ECR) Big Favour initiative and donations from good Samaritans. Queensburgh resident Elsie Schoeman first started cooking for the needy from her home. As the need grew, she moved to the Queensburgh Rugby Club’s storage unit two years ago and Queen’s Kitchen feeding scheme was born. Schoeman, who has lived and raised her five children in the area for 28 years, provides more than 500 meals a week. Her daughters, Sam Coetzee and Deejay Cronje, said their mother had made giving back a big part of their family’s life. Cronje said the day before Christmas, a casual conversation with her mother led to them committing themselves to a new project. An appeal was made to ECR Big Favour asking for assistance with the kitchen unit. “When we heard about the initiative, we immediately wanted to help and connect Elsie to the right donor,” said ECR project and CSI specialist Thobekile Honono. The Big Favour pairs people in need with available donors looking to offer support and when Peter and Fabiola Bode were renovating their kitchen in their new home, they reached out to ECR to offer their old kitchen unit worth R100 000 to someone in need, and Honono knew the perfect recipient. Peter said the donation couldn’t have been made to a more deserving community and it gave him an opportunity to visit his old neighbourhood after 40 years. Honono said they visited the soup kitchen to assess the area where the kitchen unit would be installed and realised that what Schoeman really needed was a whole new kitchen. “The storage space they were using before was too small and it was dark, we knew we couldn’t install the new unit there. That is when we contacted Energy Drive for help.” Energy Drive pitched in with a new shipping container worth R40 000. Ben Bosson from Energy Drive applauded ECR for creating a platform for those willing to help to find the right person in need. On top of the new kitchen unit and new container, Queen’s Kitchen also received a R50 000 donation from Westwood Mall and six months’ food supply from Meatless Farm. Ravenesh Subroyal from Meatless Farm said it was important that everyone was afforded an opportunity to receive good quality meals and that was what motivated them to give back to the Queen’s Kitchen feeding scheme. Schoeman thanked all involved in making the new kitchen unit project possible and added that the real heroes at Queen’s Kitchen were the women who dedicate their time to cook and feed the people in need. THE MERCURY