DURBAN - RESIDENTS in the central, south, north and inner-west parts of the city are experiencing water disruptions due to repairs to flood-damaged infrastructure at the water works. The Durban Heights Water Treatment Works experienced water production interruptions while Umgeni Water works on pump repair. In other areas interruptions have been caused by reduced production output at the Wiggins Water Treatment Works caused by murky raw water. In a statement late on Monday night, the eThekwini Municipality said teams have been working on pump repairs after they were damaged by floods at the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works. “For this reason, the distribution network was disturbed, and this caused some reservoirs to run low, thus affecting water supply to consumers. “Repairs at the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works are at an advanced stage. Residents supplied by this plant are expected to have their water restored in the next few days.” Regarding the Wiggins issue, Umgeni Water said there had been some progress as potable water production was being increased gradually at the Wiggins Water and it has reached 300 million litres per day (300ml/d). “Of the 300ml/d that was produced on Monday approximately 270ml/d was provided to the eThekwini Metro. This is approximately 31ml less than the average amount Umgeni is contracted to supply daily to eThekwini Metro,” said Umgeni Water. EThekwini said in respect of areas supplied via Wiggins, residents could expect to receive full water supply by the end of next week. DA deputy whip of the Economic Development and Planning Committee and ward 33 councillor Sakhile Mngadi said the municipality had not been forthcoming and didn’t outline which areas would be affected so that residents could better prepare themselves. “When we directly ask the city about which areas will specifically be affected we are just told about reservoir levels,” said Mngadi. EThekwini added that water tankers were available to respond to all affected areas. “Those residents who are still receiving water are requested to use it sparingly as Umgeni Water and the municipality try to balance and build up the system.” Mngadi said he had no confidence that the city would keep its promise. “We don’t trust that the city will be able to restore the water when they say they will. “Let’s look at Tongaat; its been more than 50 days that residents have been without water, promises were made there too – however residents are still suffering,” said Mngadi. “Its a well known fact that the city’s water tanker fleet is grossly under-resourced, we are constantly fighting to get these resources to the people,” said Mngadi. Mngadi has requested that residents with water help their neighbours who are without. MOST READ: – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Relative handed 3 life terms for rape of two boys, aged 10 and 12, and girl, 8, in KZN – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY