Durban — Prominent businessman, AmaZulu football club owner and KwaZulu-Natal ANC candidate for the chairperson position Sandile Zungu visited former president Jacob Zuma in Nkandla to seek his wisdom. The ANC chairperson hopeful flew into KwaDakwadunuse on Thursday in a helicopter to meet Zuma and update him on his recent wedding and his decision to respond to the call from branches nominating him to contest in the upcoming provincial elective conference expected to sit in July. Zungu, who has been endorsed by some branches in KZN, is running for the chairpersonship of the ANC in the province. Speaking briefly to the Daily News prior to his meeting with the Nkandla elder, Zungu said that his visit was part of the consultations with some of the leaders in the province. “President Zuma is one of the most influential political figures in the Zulu nation. I have come here today to visit the old man and to also inform him that I am now a married man. “My relationship with Zuma is a long-standing one. I would have loved to have him at my wedding; however, the conditions of his parole would not permit it. So it was important for me to come here to officially tell him that I have settled with my wife. “At a personal level, it’s an honour and privilege to come and share with him my excitement. I know he will advise me on how to be a better husband and family man,” said Zungu. The Umlazi-born businessman threw his hat in the ring for the provincial race to lead the ANC, arguing that he could no longer watch from the sidelines how things are being mismanaged and going wrong, whereas he felt he can fix them, adding that it was one of the reasons why he decided to switch to politics. Speaking to the publication last week in an interview with the editor, Ayanda Mdluli, Zungu said it bothered him to see young people on drugs under the bridge while at the same time “we know the ANC as the leader of society”. “It bothers me to know that there are millions of young people who are graduates but have no jobs. It also bothers me that we have young people who have no skills,” said Zungu. Daily News