Durban - A 17-YEAR-OLD uMlazi mother is grieving the death of a baby she never knew after she was told at Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital that the healthy baby she took home wasn’t hers and the baby believed to be hers, died in hospital. Andiswa Hlongwane gave birth on Friday, May 6 just after 1am. Her mother, Phumzile Hlongwane, said there were no complications, and she picked her daughter and the newborn up on Monday after they spent the weekend in hospital. Phumzile said after four days of being at home, she received a call from the hospital requesting that her daughter and the baby come to the hospital for a regular check-up and vaccines. “I sent Andiswa and the baby to the hospital the following day. When they were in hospital I received another call from the hospital asking for me to also come in,” said Phumzile. Phumzile said she was taken to the hospital matron’s office. “On my way there, I saw my daughter sobbing dressed in a hospital gown with her baby,” she said. At the meeting, she was told by hospital staff that they suspected that Andiswa’s baby was swopped with another baby born on the same day in the hospital. “I was told they found an identity bracelet with Andiswa’s details on the other child,” said Phumzile. She said the hospital said both babies would need to stay in the hospital while DNA tests were done to determine if Andiswa was the mother of the baby she took home. While the families were waiting for the DNA tests results, they were informed that one of the babies had died in hospital after falling ill. Phumzile said they were told on May 26 that it was her grandchild who died. She said the other mother was given the baby that lived and that the hospital advised them that they would be willing to assist with burial arrangements for the child who died if the family was in need. She said that she was not satisfied with what they were being told and wanted the DNA test results to show that the baby who died was her grandchild. The test was done and the results are expected on June 21. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health said: “The department is very concerned about this matter, and extremely saddened by the demise of one of the babies – which, however, has nothing to do with the allegations of the alleged baby switching.” It said the matter has been investigated and disciplinary measures taken against implicated staff members. “The matter is being treated with due care, sensitivity and respect – particularly because both parents involved are under the age of 18. Although the department is prohibited by law from publicly divulging confidential clinical information, hospital management are in regular contact with the affected families, and on hand to duly address any points of clarity. “We can also point out that the hospital offered counselling to both parties, but this was delayed due to their need to focus on their studies as they were busy with academic examinations.” Regarding the DNA results, it said the results of the first DNA tests were communicated to both mothers and their families. “On request by the mother of the deceased baby, we have conducted a second DNA test, the results of which are due on the 21st June 2022.” The KZN Department of Social Development said it would provide psycho-social support for the family if approached. THE MERCURY