DURBAN - After more than 20 years of service, one of the eThekwini Municipality’s loyal servants said farewell to the city yesterday. Members of the Executive Committee and senior municipal officials said farewell to Adrian Peters, who is leaving the municipality in July. He has served the municipality in different capacities, including in the engineering department. He is currently the Chief Strategy Officer. Peters said he was grateful for the time he had spent at the municipality and the relationships he had made. “While my formal employment ends, I still want to make contributions. The municipality has given me more than I could ever give back. It is not appropriate for me to walk away with all that I have learned. I will continue to make myself available ( to help the leadership). “I feel I am a better person for having known all of you,” Peters said. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said Peters’ departure was a big loss for the municipality, describing him as “one of our best in the local government”. ANC councillor Nkosenhle Madlala said: “On behalf of the ANC, we would like to thank Peters for his long service, dedication and hard work and the role he has played in the development of the city.” Addressing Peters. he said: “We wish you well in your retirement. We know that it came sooner than we thought. We thank you for your contribution and hope that, as a citizen of the city, you will continue to contribute whenever called upon like others before you.” DA councillor Nicole Graham said she had learned a lot from Peters, and the loss to the city was immense.  She said Peters was “always professional, committed to what he was doing and always knowledgeable”.  “We are all incredibly grateful to the work that Adrian has done,” she said. Addressing Peters, IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said: “On behalf of the IFP, we thank you for the service that you have rendered to the municipality/ We thank you for the contribution that you have made to the people of eThekwini.” EFF leader Thabane Miya also wished Peters well. “As the EFF, we have been in the municipality not for long, but I have noticed he is one of those patient and knowledgeable people.  We wish him well in his future endeavours.” Officials also described Peter’s departure as a big loss.  Acting City Manager Musa Mbhele said: “Your work ethic is unparalleled for most of the people in the service. You are a no-nonsense administrator.” THE MERCURY