Durban – SANDF engineers have started reconstructing the uMdloti Bridge and the M4 highway in La Mercy. Public roads and infrastructure were damaged and disintegrated during heavy rains and floods in KwaZulu-Natal in April. The engineers are deployed under Operation Chariot. Lieutenant Phuti Badimo said that as part of the support and services provided by the SANDF to the city of eThekwini disaster relief, a multidisciplinary team of engineers and operators has been assigned to support the Department of Transport in the repair and rebuilding of roads and bridges. Badimo said that, led by SA Army Construction troop commander Captain Siyabonga Khumalo, the reconstruction of the uMdloti Bridge and the M4 highway in La Mercy is under way. The contingent deployed consists of members from 1 Construction Regiment and 2 Field Engineering Regiment. Together, they form part of the SA Army Engineering Formation deployed for Operation Chariot, working together with the Department of Transport. Khumalo and his team have been on site since Tuesday, May 24, saying there are intricate phases involved in the reconstruction of the bridge. “Upon assessment and the removal of the rubble that had remained, the process of upfilling and compacting will take place, which will then be followed by tarring,” Khumalo said. “As a representative of the SA National Defence Force, it gives me great pride to serve and protect our people when they need us the most. We are doing our best to rehabilitate the affected areas in the city of eThekwini, one road at a time.” Department of Transport eThekwini acting deputy director Sizwe Mvelase said they were grateful for the SANDF’s support. “We are overstretched in terms of operators. The collaboration is assisting immensely in responding to the flood damages,” Mvelase said. On Friday, the SA National Roads Agency SOC Limited (Sanral) said repair and rehabilitation work on the N2 and N3 national roads after flood damage was under way. Sanral’s eastern region N2 programme manager Mabuyi Mhlanga said: “Repairs to the section of the N2 over the uMhlanga River Bridge have been completed and we are able to open all lanes to traffic today (Friday).” Sanral said that the opening of the uMhlanga River Bridge was a positive indication that Sanral was working hard to restore the national network back to its original condition before the devastating floods. It said it was working with the provincial and municipal authorities in KwaZulu-Natal to advance the rebuilding and rehabilitation work required to restore normality to the lives of the people in the province. “Repairs to the M4 and R102 which serve as an alternative route to the N2 are on top of the road repair priority list. We would like to thank the motorists for their patience during the rehabilitation period. Sanral is working hard to bring the situation back to normality,” Mhlanga said. Sanral also said that the payment of toll fees at uThongathi and uMvoti plazas on the N2 toll route remained suspended following the Sanral board’s resolution. This suspension is meant to assist communities affected by the closure of alternative routes damaged by the floods. Daily News