Durban - The deputy mayor of Inkosi Langalibalele Municipality (Estcourt), who was allegedly implicated in a cash-in-transit robbery, will present himself to the police today, according to a statement released by the IFP yesterday. This comes after the DA claimed on Saturday that Sthabiso Dladla was alleged to have been involved in the robbery last week. IFP chairperson Thami Ntuli said they had noted the allegations with serious concern, but cautioned against drawing conclusions. “The information before the party at this stage suggests that the allegations are baseless and without merit, as the Hawks have stated that they have not been able to positively link the deputy mayor to the alleged crime, however, the deputy mayor will present himself to the police tomorrow (Monday),” Ntuli said. He added that the party expected law-enforcement agencies to investigate the matter with a sense of urgency. Ntuli said that the party subscribed to good governance and ethical leadership and was ready to invoke disciplinary processes when necessary. The Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, a custodian of municipalities in the province, would not comment yesterday. The DA challenged Dladla to resign from his position, threatening to submit a motion of no confidence in him. “The IFP must act decisively to suspend the IFP party membership of Sthabiso Dladla, and support the DA motion of no confidence in Dladla,” the DA’s Alf Lees said. Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said that urgent and decisive action needed to be taken by the IFP top brass. “When I heard this, my immediate thoughts were on the party’s founding leader Dr Buthelezi, on how he would react upon hearing this given his stance against any form of crime,” he said. “Considering that the IFP ran last year’s local government elections campaign under the Trust Us theme, such an allegation is really bad for its brand, so this is why it will be important to act on this in order to limit further damage that would be caused,” Khumalo said. On Saturday, Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Thandi Mbambo told Sunday Tribune that they had not positively linked Dladla to the case and investigations were still under way. THE MERCURY