Durban -  ActionSA leader Herman Mashaba’s political conquests have inspired up and coming amapiano artist Freymusiq to create a new hit titled Herman Mashaba to pay homage to the former Joburg mayor’s work in the country’s dramatic political landscape. The amapiano genre is hugely popular among South African youth and has also previously seen a music charts topping song titled Lorch created to honour one of South African football’s biggest stars Thembinkosi Lorch of Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana fame. In 2017, hip hop hitmaker Cassper Nyovest also dropped a banger of his own titled Tito Mboweni, in reference to the former governor of the South African Reserve Bank and former minister of finance. Now, the 22-year-old muso Freymusiq, born Godfrey Malindisa, from Ennerdale in the south of Joburg has joined the club, dropping his single Herman Mashaba over the weekend. He says that Mashaba’s leadership skills in serving South Africans and vision for South Africans was the inspiration behind his decision to hit the studio and record the track in tribute to the former City of Joburg mayor. “I just felt like dedicating something to his leadership skills in serving South Africans and thought let me do a song in tribute to Herman Mashaba and ActionSA,” Malindisa said. The musician, who is signed under the record label Zuztainment, says that the project was out of sheer interest in the work Mashaba and his party were doing and not a commissioned track by the party. “I had a meeting with Mashaba via Zoom and his response was just tremendous and I’m still astonished even right now, he loved the song and I could just tell from his facial expression he sees something in the song. I was very humbled and honoured by that,” Malindisa says. He says that his versatility will help him survive in a South African music industry that has seen genres such Kwaito and Gqom enjoy popularity but also fall by the wayside with the advent of genres such as amapiano. “I came into the industry doing Hip Hop and then I did some Afro House and I got advised to do amapiano since its in the mainstream. I can also do gospel, so I am looking forward to seeing what the future holds for me because I want to be an international artist. “Already, we are receiving calls from various Deejays asking for the single track for them to play it at various venues in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Lesotho and from other parts of SADC,” Malindisa said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE