Durban - With Argentina and Iran’s application to become members of the group of emerging economies known as the BRICS, the Land Party urged BRICS to establish a military bloc that will protect the interests of BRICS partners. This call comes as Iran officially submitted an application on Monday to join Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. Following the recent developments, the Land Party in South Africa released a statement on Tuesday welcoming Iran’s application to join the five-member nation bloc and said that it was long overdue as the Iranian nation shares common values with BRICS countries. The Land Party is a South African political party that advocates for policies inspired by policy decisions used in the economic development of the People's Republic of China. “Values for peace, stability, prosperity and sovereignty integrity. The Land Party is certain that BRICS will welcome Iran with warm hands as BRICS is the only hope for global peace and stability. “The Land Party urges BRICS to establish a military bloc that will protect the interests of BRICS partners. A joint military operation must be established to foster military operations within BRICS countries,” read the statement. The party’s chief leader Gcobani Ndzongana said it was important for BRICS to have an action plan on how to defend itself against any military force. “Without the military force, no country can defend itself, the expansion of Nato in Europe calls for BRICS to do the same and protect its members. BRICS is becoming a threat to the dominant countries and the aggression against this bloc must be countered. A very strong military bloc will ensure that the defence of these member states is guaranteed,” explained Ndzongana. He further stressed that countries that had strong military bases around the world had managed to dominate weaker countries. Law expert Professor Isaac Shai said that the BRICS would certainly decentralise the global economic dominance of the west and dethrone it as the leader of the international community. “These are very serious developments and without a doubt, the expansion of BRICS will change everything as the power dynamics shift,” he said. Iran and Argentina’s applications to join BRICS is a boost for Russia and China which have long been pushing to forge closer ties with Asia, South America, and the Middle East. Currently, BRICS countries represent 40% of the world population, account for 25% of the global economy and 18% of world trade, and contribute 50% to the world's economic growth. The BRICS was established in 2006 with an aim to promote peace, security, development, and cooperation, contribute significantly to the development of humanity, and establish a more equitable and fair world. South Africa officially became a member of the bloc in 2010. Daily News