Durban – Despite insistence by former KwaZulu-Natal government director-general, Nhlanhla Ngidi, that Nomusa Dube-Ncube has joined forces with her, the latter's lobbyists are saying that is not true. On Wednesday, Ngidi told the Daily News that as things stood, he will chair the new slate and Dube-Ncube will be his deputy provincial chairperson. The new slate has Nameh Mogale as provincial secretary, Nomagugu Simelane, the current MEC for Health in the province, as deputy provincial secretary and Bongiwe Simelene (not related to Nomagugu) as provincial treasurer. “My answer is there is (such a slate). I personally spoke to Nomusa Dube-Ncube and we both agreed to the line-up as it stands,” Ngidi said when asked to provide clarity on the matter. In the past, Dube-Ncube, the current MEC for Finance and provincial treasurer of the ANC, was the chairperson of the slate which had Peggy Nkonyeni, the MEC for Transport and Community Safety. The slate was first announced by the KZN ANC Women’s League in January this year, insisting that the time had come for the province to be led by a woman for the first time in its democratic history. The new slate is expected to take on the incumbent provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, who is also facing a challenge from businessman Sandile Zungu and from a faction called the Taliban, which has Bheki Mtolo, the mayor of Kokstad, as its provincial secretary candidate. Regarding Ngidi's claims, Dube-Ncube's chief lobbyist, Wiseman Ngobese, said that is not the case as their candidate does not believe in slate-based politics. "Regarding your query about Cde Nhlanhla Ngidi and his slate which he suggests that Cde Nomusa Dube-Ncube agreed to be his deputy chair, we wish to state that Dube-Ncube does not believe in ‘slate-based’ politics, but a leadership core that can take the province forward.  “It is the branches that would decide on who constitutes that leadership collective. She appreciates the fact that regional chairs and secretaries are working hard to usher in a new era in their regions and across the province. "Their interaction with (former) president Jacob Zuma is a clear demonstration that they want all of us to build on the foundation laid down by Nxamalala and many more other leaders who put this province on a new trajectory of socio-economic development.  “Dube-Ncube is inspired by the collective approach of regional chairs and secretaries. And she is of the view that the ANC needs to move beyond slate politics. Slates and factions are what breed divisions in the party," Ngobese said. The provincial conference will be held from July 15 to 17 in a city and venue yet to be decided by the provincial executive committee. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News