Durban - ANC KwaZulu-Natal chairperson Sihle Zikalala has called for the fair application of the ruling party’s step-aside policy, saying that its current application raises questions. Speaking at a Youth Day event in the Moses Mabhida Region in Pietermaritzburg yesterday, Zikalala raised concerns over the slow pace of prosecutions in matters where ANC members have been asked to step aside. He insisted that while they subscribed to the step-aside policy, there were concerns over the slow pace of the cases of those who had been charged and asked to step aside, saying this had led to unnecessary delays in people’s lives. “We should see the application of step-aside policy across all ranks, and equally we want to see prosecutions that are swift, not just a prolonged episode because such a move amounts to delays and justice delayed is justice denied,” said Zikalala. A number of ANC leaders in KZN are facing prosecution over alleged corruption, including former eThekwini mayor and current ANC eThekwini chairperson Zandile Gumede and former MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu – who have been forced to step aside from public office. Their cases are continuing in court, but there is no indication their matters will be concluded soon. According to Zikalala, the delays could have been avoided if prosecution teams had their matters in order. He also insisted that they would continue supporting former president Jacob Zuma, as this was in line with the ANC’s policy of standing by its leaders. “We will support comrade Zuma throughout because in the ANC we stand by our leaders,” he told a packed Pietermaritzburg City Hall. This was in reference to the recent development where some ANC members and leaders visited Zuma at his home in Nkandla, raising questions over the appropriateness of such a move. Zikalala also called for unity among party members, warning that divisions along factional lines could see the ANC losing its grip on power. The ANC will hold its provincial elective conference next month where Zikalala is set to lock horns with Nomusa Dube-Ncube for the position of chairperson. THE MERCURY