Durban – An educational services provider Brigdewood, has planned a week-long winter school camp to assist Grade 12 pupils who have lost learning time due to the devastating floods in KwaZulu-Natal.  To make it more exciting, a popular short video app, TikTok will be among the tools that will be used to pass the information.  This was revealed by Phinda Fikeni who is an organiser of the camp and a member of Bridgewood company that has been assisting pupils who are struggling academically. Fikeni said the organisation was established by peers from the University of KwaZulu-Natal who studied teaching.  “We specialise in the provision of academic programmes and academic interventions that are specifically suited for learners and students between the high school and junior primary phases,” Fikeni said. TikTok teaching sensation Samkelo Mhlophe, who has partnered with Bridgewood to provide his services on the camp said that a lot can be expected from him. “There is a lot of knowledge that will be gained by the pupils being at the camp. What they see on social media will be done live, through a state of the art service.  “So everyone who will be there will definitely benefit,” Mhlophe said. The camp  will be hosted in Pinetown from the June 25 to  July 3, 2022 will also host a variety of television and entertainment personalities to give motivation, Fikeni said.  “We are holding a camp which is a June intervention programme. Learners have lost out on plenty of quality teaching time due to the floods and teachers do not actually give them the efficiency in terms of time and individual attention. So it came to us and our partners to introduce a winter school programme that would allow to bridge the gap for students that are lagging behind from January to June, and to prepare them for the second half of the year, as well as the examinations for November,” he said. Fikeni noted that the programme is not specifically designated for a particular class of students, but is open to all qualifying matriculants and grade eleven students, at a fee.  He said the fees will cover registration, accommodation, transport, and meals for the duration of the camp. He said that learners will be attending classes from morning to evening, with extra curricular activities in between that are targeted and emotional and social development of the students. Interested candidates are required to text Bridgewood’s WhatsApp number on 0679050852, after which they will answer a few questions, prior to receiving a link to their website and register formally. “The process of registration has already begun on June 1 and will close on June 20, then we will finalised all the processes.”  SUNDAY TRIBUNE