Durban - NEARLY six months after placing two top executives on precautionary suspension, Mhlathuze Water has decided to take disciplinary steps against its chief executive and chief financial officer. The move was announced yesterday by the water entity after months of speculation about the fate of CEO Mthokozisi Duze and CFO Babongile Mnyandu. The two were placed on what the entity referred to as “special leave” in December. However, in yesterday’s statement the entity said the two had been on precautionary suspension. “The board of Mhlathuze Water has resolved to take disciplinary action against its chief executive, Mr Mthokozisi Duze and chief financial officer, Ms Babongile Mnyandu, on charges of financial misconduct and maladministration,” the entity confirmed. The statement said the decision followed an intensive investigation commissioned by the board in December after whistle-blower allegations implicating the two executives were brought to the board’s attention. It said the investigation was discussed during last week’s board meeting where the report on the matter was unanimously adopted. According to the water entity, in line with the recommendations of the investigation, an independent disciplinary process would be held in the coming weeks and the two will remain on suspension until the disciplinary process had been concluded. “We have reviewed the charges brought against the executives and believe there is sufficient ground to institute disciplinary proceedings.” The water entity also sought to assure the public of leadership stability, indicating that with the continued suspension of the two, Swaswa Ntlhoro and Thokozani Hlongwane would continue in their roles as interim chief executive and chief financial officer respectively. Duze told The Mercury last night that he had received a letter informing him about the charges laid against him last Friday, adding that he would challenge the contents of the report that inform the charges of financial misconduct. He questioned the authority of the report and timing of laying of charges. “The report was compiled and concluded without my input and that is a clear violation of my contract. It cannot be that a report about my alleged misconduct does not have contain my side of the story, and that is why the report is with my lawyers and we are taking it to court to challenge it,” he said. He said there appeared to be a rush in laying disciplinary charges against him before June 8, as this would have marked six months since the suspension, which he argued was illegal. Mnyandu could not be reached yesterday, however in an earlier interview, she confirmed that she had been served with a notice of a decision taken by the board. “Yes I received a notice on Thursday about steps that were being taken against me,” she said. The Mercury understands that since the suspension, Duze has had his security detail downgraded, but Mhlathuze Water spokesperson Siyabonga Maphumulo would not comment. The entity said in a separate investigation that four other officials from the Supply Chain Management and Technical Services Department were also put on precautionary suspension. THE MERCURY