Durban - Former Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has been left out of the newly formed ANC Women’s League National Task Team following the disbandment of the Women’s League by the ANC national executive committee. Dlamini, found guilty of perjury earlier this year for having lied under oath during her testimony in an inquiry for her role in the 2017 social grants scandal, was shunned by the ANC NEC in the newly formed structure. Her snubbing by the NEC does not come as a surprise following her sentencing to four years’ imprisonment, with two years of the sentence suspended, or a R200 000 fine, R100 000 of which was suspended, for lying under oath during the Judge Bernard Ngoepe Inquiry into the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) grants scandal. In a letter addressed to the 43 members of the newly formed task team which will be led by former National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete, the NEC said it had taken the decision to dissolve the Women’s League and replace it with the National Task Team in its special NEC meeting held on April 24-25. Maropene Ramokgopa, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s special adviser on international relations and a known ally of the president, will be the co-ordinator of the newly formed structure, while Maqueen Letshoha-Mathale has been appointed as its fund-raiser. Other prominent members of the task team are Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, former Energy Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson and Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and People with Disabilities Maite Nkoana-Mashabane. In the letter sent to the task team, acting ANC secretary-general Paul Mashatile said the ANC Women’s League National Task Team was mandated to ensure, among other things, that structures were in good standing. Mashatile said the structure should ensure that conferences were held in branches, regions and provinces to ensure that the ANCWL national conference was convened within a year and that processes were accurate so that the standing of the conference could not be contested. “The NEC mandated the national officials and the NWC (national working committee) to process the composition and  terms of reference of the ANCWL NTT and to report to a special NEC meeting. We wish you well in the important responsibilities entrusted to you by the organisation,” Mashatile said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE