Durban - SOUTH Africa’s Justice Department last night confirmed that law enforcement authorities in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had arrested fugitives Rajesh and Atul Gupta. Last year, Interpol issued red notices against Atul Gupta and his wife, Chetali; Rajesh Gupta and his wife, Arti; former Nulane Investment Bank of Baroda account signatory Ankit Jain; director of Wone Management Ravindra Nath; and the directors of Pragat Investments, Ramesh Bhat and Jagdish Parekh. “Discussions between various law enforcement agencies in the UAE and South Africa on the way forward are ongoing. The South African government will continue to co-operate with the UAE,” a statement from the department read. The brothers are wanted in South Africa in connection with the R25 million Nulane Investment case in the Free State and other matters related to fraud and corruption. In the Nulane matter, the NPA’s Investigative Directorate said last year that the matter related to a R25m feasibility study in 2011 that was irregularly granted to Nulane Investment, a company owned and controlled by Iqbal Sharma. The arrests come as State Capture Commission of Inquiry chairperson Chief Justice Raymond Zondo is expected to submit the last instalment of his report on the inquiry’s findings. The previous instalments painted a picture of how the Gupta brothers allegedly scored lucrative contracts from the government by using their relationship with former president Jacob Zuma and some of his cabinet ministers. DA national spokesperson and MP Siviwe Gwarube said the party noted reports of the arrests of Atul and Rajesh Gupta in Dubai. “We hope that this is indeed the beginning of arrests and prosecution of those who have – locally and abroad – looted our country for years and are directly responsible for the hardships that millions of South Africans face today. “The DA has noted the confirmation by the Department of Justice and we look forward to more information regarding the arrests and the process that will be followed after these arrests. It is of absolute importance that there is transparency on this matter.” Gwarube said with President Cyril Ramaphosa facing serious questions about the dubious theft from his farm in Limpopo, “it is important that our law enforcement agencies are impartial and thorough”. THE MERCURY