Durban – The sub-Antarctic fur seal that washed up on Winklespruit beach is now in the care of the South African Association for Marine Biological Research (Saambr) after its condition did not improve. Saambr’s Ann Kunz said that on Wednesday night, they had admitted the sub-Antarctic fur seal which was seen resting on the beach in front of the lifesavers’ building at uMtentweni beach. “They received a call last weekend from members of the KwaZulu-Natal Stranding Network to let us know that a seal had washed up on Winklespruit beach. In consultation with Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife staff, it was thought that the seal, named Twini by the lifeguards, appeared to be in relatively good condition.  “It was decided that the best option was to leave him on the beach and allow him the opportunity to rest and regain his strength before he made the 1 970km journey home,” Kunz said. She said staff from the Lower Coast SPCA, members of the public and the local lifeguards took turns to keep a 24-hour vigil over Twini, while he rested. But by Monday morning when it was clear that keeping watch over Twini late at night presented challenges, the decision was made to relocate Twini to a quieter beach on the lower South Coast, Kunz said. “Unfortunately, his condition did not improve as hoped, and officials from Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife asked Saambr staff to admit Twini to uShaka Sea World. “On arrival, Twini was found to be slightly underweight, lethargic and it was presumed that he was dehydrated. We administered appropriate IV fluids and allowed him time to rest overnight,” Kunz continued. “This morning (Thursday), the team took X-rays and blood, and the veterinary team were able to perform a thorough body check. No external injuries were noted, except for an old injury to his right eye.” Kunz added that sub-Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus tropicalis) were found in the southern parts of the Indian, Pacific and Atlantic oceans. “We believe it was likely that Twini had travelled to South Africa from the Prince Edward Island region,” Kunz said. She said that the Prince Edward Islands were two small islands in the sub-Antarctic Indian Ocean that are part of South Africa. Additionally, sub-Antarctic fur seals are listed as an Appendix II species under CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora). Daily News