Durban - Officials from eThekwini Municipality will meet with the Ingonyama Trust Board this week to discuss charging residents living on the trust’s land for services being provided by the municipality. The chief financial officer of the municipality, Sandile Mnguni, revealed during the discussions on the city’s Draft Budget for the 2022/23 financial year that the municipal officials will be meeting the Ingonyama Trust officials before the end of the week. “We will be meeting later on this subject to confirm with one of the officials (from the trust) who will be part of the meeting,” said Mnguni. The city revealed recently that it wants to engage with the Ingonyama Trust over services provided on its land, adding that there were many people using municipal services like water but not paying, despite having the means to do so. The Mercury understands that the meeting with the Ingonyama Trust would be twofold. The first part would be a discussion on the rates they owe to the municipality. Previous reports on the municipal debt reflected that the Ingonyama Trust Board was among the entities that owed the municipality millions of rand. The last stated figure showed that the council was owed more than R200 million. The council is owed close to R17 billion for services, including R1bn by government departments. The second part of the discussion would be around services, as city officials said they would engage the Ingonyama Trust on its intention to charge residents for some of the services. “There are developments happening in those areas. “The main charge will be around water and other services like cutting grass and other maintenance, we just want them to pay something for these services,” said the officials. The officials said that before this flat rate came into effect, they would conduct a means test, going doorto-door visiting homes to determine which residents could afford to pay. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda said last week that the city was looking to charge the residents a flat rate of R100 for the services. The news of the proposed charges sparked an outcry from some of the political parties, with the National Freedom Party threatening to lead a strike that would shut down the city. In a statement, the party said: “We will not allow that to happen. The mayor and his exco must forget (it). Not a single rural resident would pay a cent. There’s no way rural people would be subjected to this scandalous move. Rural people only receive limited services, which is water and electricity. Even for the two, they pay. Therefore, for the city to come out with such a calculated move to solicit money from residents is unacceptable. “The people who should pay for the rates are those rich individuals who receive maximum services, including refuse collection, cutting of grass, patching of potholes. “Unfortunately, none of these services are rendered in rural areas, yet the city wants poor residents to pay,” the statement said. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi reiterated his call that before the city can take steps to charge for services in these areas , there should be proper consultation with the residents. “This is to make sure that we do not have any problems down the road,” said Nkosi. THE MERCURY