Dundee – The KwaZulu-Natal growing horse race, Dundee July is set to come back stronger after an unprecedented two-year break owing to Covid-19 lockdown.  The horse race  set to take place on July 16 will attracts jockeys from neighbouring countries such as Lesotho, Namibia and Mozambique.  This was revealed by the KZN MEC of Sport, Arts and Culture, Hlengiwe Mavimbela during the launch in Dundee on Friday. “I am happy to announce that the 16th edition of the Dundee July will be held at Endumeni Horse Racing Track, with the addition of a few exciting programmes aimed at enhancing the line-up and offerings, to ensure a holistic experience for our patrons,” said MEC Mavimbela. She confirmed that the event would attract thousands of horse racing enthusiasts to flock into the venue for a day of exciting horse racing, fashion and entertainment.  However, she said details about entry to the venue to ensure compliance with Covid-19 regulations will be announced soon. The theme for this year edition for this year’s event is “Royalty” which represents African Royalty and symbolises presence and class. Mavimbela said her department would continue to work with stakeholders to further grow the equine industry which has potential to contribute to economic growth and job creation. “Annually the department invests more than R8 million towards the equine industry development, including the hosting of horse racing events in different districts as well as capacity building for the industry.  “I am happy to indicate that the traditional horse racing sector now has a footprint in all 11 districts in the province,” she said. This year’s Dundee July will feature 12 races, including national and international participants. “We expect at least 400 jockeys and horse owners to participate in the Dundee July including the build-up events.  “The total stake money is going to reach our target of R1.3m for this year, which will further boost the economic benefits for the horse owners. “Plans are at an advanced stage to avail betting facilities on site at this year’s event so that punters can place bets on their favourite horses, utilising credible information as compiled through the Stud book project. ​“Formal betting will be happening for the first time in the history of the race,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE