Durban - As the battle for the soul of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal intensifies, the branches of Nomusa Dube-Ncube and outgoing provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, have nominated them to lock horns next month. The nomination process has been under way for weeks now. However, on Sunday it got into another gear when most branches set to nominate their preferred provincial leaders. The provincial conference will be held on the weekend of July 15 to 17 in a city that will be determined by the ANC’s provincial executive committee (PEC) on Monday. So far, the most prominent people in the race for chair are Zikalala, Dube-Ncube, Dr Ntuthuko Mahlaba, Nhlanhla Ngidi (who is an adviser to Zikalala in his capacity as provincial premier) and businessman Sandile Zungu. Announcing their nomination of Zikalala, the Million Meyiwa branch in Ndwedwe, which is the home branch of Zikalala, said he had successfully steered the provincial government and ANC during turbulent times, hence their nomination for him to continue to be the party’s pilot. “The BGM (branch general meeting) noted that these are unprecedented events that no leadership collective has faced in recent memory. The BGM also noted that KwaZulu-Natal is the only province that has showed flashes of success in implementing Radical Economic Transformation. This is evident through programmes such as Operation Vula and Youth Fund. During the nomination process, the name of the current provincial chairperson was nominated for the position of provincial chairperson at the upcoming conference. “The branch also made nominations for other positions and additional members. Cde (comrade) Sihle Zikalala led a Provincial Executive Committee that was able to finish its term without chaos. He led a PEC that was united and without divisions. To date, he runs an administration with a track record of less incidents of corruption. Under his collective, the name of the province is synonymous with inspiring ideas and innovation. We believe the leadership collective is equal to the task and the best candidate to unite our  movement towards a Successful 2024 Victory,” the branch said in a statement. The branch’s chairperson, Themba Hlatshwayo, said for the position of provincial secretary, they wanted the incumbent, Mdumiseni Ntuli to continue to serve. “For that position, we nominated Mr Mdumiseni Ntuli, the one who is currently serving in that position,” he said. On the same day, Zikalala was nominated, the Linda Nzama branch in KwaMashu, north of Durban, sat and nominated her opponent, Dube-Ncube. This is the home branch of Dube-Ncube who comes from the township of KwaMashu. “As Linda Nzama Branch in KwaMashu, we offer to the people of this province Cde Nomusa Dube-Ncube. The daughter of the soil. We have debated and agreed that she is the one who will return this province to its former glory. “We are handing her over to the young and old, to the urban and rural – we say to you, respectfully – you won’t regret having her as your leader,” said a joint statement from branches secretary, Simiso Mkhize and Wiseman Ngobese, the chief lobbyist of Dube-Ncube. sihle.mavuso@inl.co.za Daily News