DURBAN - DRAMATIC changes may be on the cards in eThekwini Metro, if “proposals” put forward for the City to cut overtime and invest in hiring more staff, employing its own security, and buying its own water-tankers are implemented. The eThekwini human settlements and infrastructure cluster wants these changes to be implemented in the coming financial year. It wants overtime costs halved; for the City to stop hiring water-tankers and use the money to instead buy its own water-tankers; in-source security; as it is concerned that the current crop of security guards are not effectively dealing with crime. Several incidents of vandalism of infrastructure and the murder of municipal staff have been reported this year. The changes to the cluster’s budget were proposed during a special committee meeting last week, and could be incorporated into the draft budget for the 2022/23 financial year, which is expected to be passed this wee k. It emerged recently that almost half of the City’s staff complement is claiming overtime pay every month. The metro police recently tabled a report before the executive committee requesting an additional R60 million for overtime. It was approved, and pushed their overtime budget to R180 million for this financial year. The metro police department does not fall under the human settlements and infrastructure committee, therefore it is not affected by the human settlements and infrastructure committee’s proposal. But three other units, Durban Solid Waste (DSW), water and electricity that also have high overtime costs, and other services, fall under this department. For instance, it has been reported that the DSW has staff shortages, and therefore relies on staff working overtime on weekends. As a result, councillors in the committee said, the DSW exceeded its overtime budget regularly. For water and electricity, outside the normal overtime claims the units might have, they also have to spend a small fortune on security as they sometimes have to be escorted by security to restore services in some dangerous areas. The human settlements and infrastructure cluster proposed to cut the money it spent on overtime by half. It spends about R500 million annually on overtime, and wants the money to be redirected to employing more people. Committee chairperson and deputy mayor, Philani Mavundla, said yesterday that such changes were necessary. “Our human settlements and infrastructure portfolio is among those spending a lot of overtime – about R500 million – and the cluster voted this must be reduced.” A report on the matter stated that after tabling of the draft council budget on May 31, clusters under the human settlements and infrastructure portfolio committee had adjusted their respective budgets to optimise the use of council resources, and improve service delivery. The report said overtime had been reduced by 50% in the budget to fund vacant posts across all departments. External security would be adjusted by R80 million to augment the capacity of the metro police. The eThekwini water and sanitation department has adjusted its hire budget by R20 million to acquire additional water tanks, subject to approval. Mavundla said they would engage the workers and unions. “What is the use of me earning a double salary, while there is another person who is unemployed. “This is also to protect our workers, imagine having to work from 8am to 8am. What if we have an emergency where skilled workers are sitting at home (and cannot attend to it, because they have worked such a long shift).” He said the City also needed to cut its spend on hiring water-tankers. “With the money we spend on these service providers, the City could buy four water tankers of its own every month … ” Speaking on security, he said the City was better off insourcing this service to the metro police. “We pay these security companies a lot of money. Our infrastructure gets damaged although we have security guards, and our workers are killed while there is security… ” He mentioned the murders of Amos Ngcobo, killed in the water and sanitation offices in Springfield and Phumzile Qatha, killed at a depot in Ottawa. “We are better off insourcing this service to the metro police (and paying them). We (political principals) are guarded by the metro police, they know what they are doing and nothing has happened to us,” said Mavundla. DA councillor Mzamo Billy said the party agreed with the proposal in principle. “We raised concerns about the millions paid for overtime to the metro police, water, electricity and the DSW employees. Just them alone, by the end of this month, June 2022, would have spent R150 million on overtime in this financial year. We expressed concern that over the past months, the various departmental reports showed exorbitant overtime amounts.” IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said they have long called for changes. “We’ve said that with the money the City spends on hiring water tankers, it could buy its own.” THE MERCURY