Durban - A Durban e-hailing driver is fighting for his life after he was stabbed several times by hijackers who stole his vehicle while he waited to collect passengers in Greenwood Park on Monday. This comes after a Durban e-hailing driver was targeted by an unknown number of criminals who allegedly posed as “passengers”, then hijacked him at gunpoint in the Sea Cow Lake area last week. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said the driver was attacked and stabbed several times by armed hijackers while waiting to fetch passengers on Effingham Road. Powell said the driver managed to seek assistance by running to a nearby bottle store in the Greenwood Park area. The store immediately contacted the Emergency Dispatch Centre at about 7.30pm and reported that a vehicle hijacking had taken place and that the victim had been stabbed multiple times. Multiple armed response officers and special ops team members were dispatched to the scene, he said. “Our team arrived in a matter of minutes and managed to stabilise the wounded victim while other members of our Special Operations Team assisted Bidtrack to locate the hijacked vehicle,” said Powell. Reports from the scene indicated that an e-hailing driver was requested to pick up passengers on Ben Nevis Road. “While the driver was waiting for his clients, he was approached by two suspects, one of which was armed with a knife, and then hijacked the motorist of his white Toyota Corolla,” said Powell. He said the driver sustained multiple stab wounds to the head, chest, arm and hand. “Members of our Special Ops Team administered first aid and intermediate life support to the critically wounded victim and managed to stabilise the victim on scene,” he said. Meanwhile, Powell said additional members of the special ops team were activated by Bidtrack to assist with the recovery of the same hijacked Toyota Corolla. “After 20 minutes from being dispatched, the hijacked vehicle was recovered and found abandoned in the Newlands East area by our team members together with Bidtrack ground team,” he said. Netcare 911 arrived on scene a short while later and transported the critically wounded victim to a local hospital for further medical care, he added. “Greenwood Park SAPS were in attendance and will be investigating a case of hijacking and attempted murder,” said Powell. THE MERCURY