Durban — Next week Monday, three friends will be standing side by side in court for their bail application after appearing in court  for the unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. Police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said three friends, aged between 22 and 24, appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Monday for unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. They were remanded in custody until June 27, 2022, for a bail application. “On June 18, 2022, KwaMashu police officers were conducting a roadblock along Queen Nandi Drive when they flagged down a vehicle. The vehicle refused to stop, and a chase ensued. The suspect’s vehicle came to a stop on Malandela Road after it collided with another vehicle,” Ngcobo said. “Three men who were found in the vehicle were searched, and three firearms, as well as several rounds of ammunition, were found in their possession. The suspects were placed under arrest and detained for being in unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition.” Meanwhile, in the early hours of Monday morning, police seized 24 firearms and arrested eight suspects during a multi-disciplinary operation in Manqofi, the Weenen area, northwest of KwaZulu-Natal. “As the police were approaching the identified house, shots were fired at them. They tactically entered the house and were able to disarm eight suspects.” “During a search of the house, police officers recovered a shotgun, two rifles, a revolver, four pistols and ninety rounds of ammunition. Police also found two explosive devices, a vehicle engine and dagga, inside the house,” Ngcobo said. “The police proceeded to the Sahlumbe area in Weenen, where one rifle and 15 pistols were recovered,” continued Ngcobo. She said that the suspects fled before the police arrived. Ngcobo said that eight suspects, aged between 20 and 46, were arrested and detained at Weenen SAPS. “They will appear before the Weenen Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday, facing charges of attempted murder, possession of dagga, unlawful possession of explosives, as well as unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition,” Ngcobo said. Daily News