Durban - A week after opening criminal charges against each other, KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala and controversial media personality Ngizwe Mchunu have decided to smoke the peace pipe and withdraw the cases. The charges stemmed from an incident that took place on June 4 at the Ingoma KaZwelonke Festival, a cultural event at Moses Mabhida Stadium where the pair had an altercation. Both Zikalala and Mchunu opened cases of crimen injuria against each other at Durban Central police station. Throughout last week, the incident had been a source of debate, including on social media platforms. On Monday, Mchunu called a media briefing in uMhlanga in which he announced the withdrawal of the crimen injuria case against the premier.  He was seen leaving the Durban Central police station on Tuesday.  The former Ukhozi FM presenter said he had opted to make peace with the premier, in line with his cultural practice where disagreements were resolved through talking. “Our culture does not encourage that as leaders we should be seen to be in conflict,” said Mchunu. He added that by fighting among each other, Africans were making it easier for their enemies to divide them further, saying this was the reason that had prompted him to withdraw the charges. He told the briefing he had been shocked by how the episode had generated publicity. “I got a call from AfriForum, people that I never thought knew me, let alone had my contact details,” Mchunu said. He noted that the cultural event at the stadium had been a huge success, and had been held at a crucial time when the province was trying to recover from economic hardships brought on by the Covid19 pandemic, the July unrest and the recent floods. Lennox Mabaso, the spokesperson in the Office of the Premier, said that following Mchunu’s announcement, they considered the matter closed. “The premier of KwaZulu-Natal, Sihle Zikalala, has noted and welcomed the statement by Mr Ngizwe Mchunu. The premier confirms that both himself and Mr Ngizwe Mchunu have amicably decided to withdraw charges against one another,” he said. The altercation had even been referred to by IFP founder and president emeritus Dr Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who spoke about it during the president’s budget debate in Parliament. The IFP leader questioned Zikalala’s leadership credentials, accusing him of involvement in a brawl. Mchunu, a cultural activist known for his support for former president Jacob Zuma, is no stranger to controversy. He was charged for inciting unrest last year, after he recorded a video message calling on President Cyril Ramaphosa to stop Zuma’s arrest. In the video he had warned of a dire situation that would develop out of the arrest, and some believe that the video may have influenced the wide scale looting that followed. That case is still before court. THE MERCURY