Durban - NKOSAZANA Dlamini Zuma, the Minister of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, has thanked the Mozambican government for flood relief after the country donated food aid to South Africa yesterday. The handover, at La Mercy, was attended by a Mozambican delegation that included the chairperson of the National Institution for Disasters, Risk and Prevention, Luisa Celma Meque, and High Commissioner Paulino J Macaringue. The relief consisted of 10 tons of rice, 10 tons of maize flour, 20 tons of spaghetti, and 2 tons of brown sugar. Dlamini Zuma said she was pleased to receive flood relief from the country’s neighbour. “We are very grateful for this flood relief that we have received today from Mozambique, and for the delegation present here.” Dlamini Zuma said that the relief was welcome as it would allow the government to reallocate funds that would have been used for food for displaced residents. “As you know people who are in shelters after being displaced need essentials, and food is one of them as they need three meals a day. We have been providing food to them, but we have been grateful for donors, internal and external, who have assisted residents with food and other essentials.” Dlamini Zuma added that the main focus for the government was building temporary housing units for displaced residents. Meque said Mozambicans understood the challenges brought on by floods as the country had faced its own disasters. “We know how badly KwaZulu-Natal was affected by the floods, especially here in Durban. We were profoundly touched by the situation as Mozambique has gone through the same problems. We are neighbours, and all the time when we have had similar problems, South Africa has been there for us and has been on our side. “We are here to offer strength to the South African government as they face this difficult challenge of rebuilding after the recent floods. We want to thank Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma for availing herself, and her team for receiving us so warmly. We will continue to be a shoulder of support for South Africa during this difficult time.” THE MERCURY