Durban — Two suspects have appeared in court after they were arrested for stealing a nebuliser from a pharmacy in the uMhlanga area and being in the possession of clothing with the price and security tags still attached. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said the suspects were arrested and various stolen items were recovered when members of their special operations team spotted a wanted Isuzu bakkie in the uMhlanga area. Powell said that after 4pm on Saturday, the Marshall Security Emergency Dispatch Centre were alerted to a theft incident on Chartwell Drive. “Reports from the scene indicated that a suspect had stolen a nebuliser from a local pharmacy. The suspect managed to make a quick getaway by jumping into an awaiting red Isuzu double cab bakkie parked on Chartwell Drive and fled the scene,” Powell said. He said all armed response officers and special ops team members were informed accordingly to be on the lookout for the wanted suspects’ vehicle. “A short while later the red Isuzu was spotted by members of our special ops team travelling on Umhlanga Rocks Drive, where after they pulled over and two suspects were immediately arrested,” Powell said. “One suspect was in possession of a bag that contained the stolen nebuliser – the bag had been lined with foil on the inside to prevent security tags from alerting security when passing the detector device at the entrance and exits of a store.” Powell said Durban North police were informed accordingly and arrived on the scene. “Upon further investigation and a search of the suspects’ vehicle, various items of clothing with their price tags still on, and some of the clothing items still containing security tags, were found,” he said. “The suspects could not give a reasonable explanation as to where they got the clothing items and could also not provide any proof of purchase of the items,” Powell said. He said both suspects and the vehicle were taken to the Durban North SAPS for further processing. Police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo confirmed the incident and said that the suspects appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. Ngcobo said the incident took place at 4pm on Saturday, at a business premises on Lighthouse Road in Umhlanga where two suspects stole a nebuliser. “The suspects aged between 35 and 38 were later arrested for theft.” Daily News