DURBAN - The Commander in Chief of the Economic Freedom Fighters Julius Malema, lost his temper and took matters into his own hands, when the sound kept stalling and appeared to malfunction at the Siyabonga rally after-party on Saturday. Hell almost broke loose when Malema, who was seated at the VIP section with his deputy Floyd Shivambu and other leaders of the party at the Moses Mabhida People’s Park, unexpectedly stood up and rushed to the stage where a few DJs were performing, and started shouting and pointing fingers at those who were playing on the desk. Malema, flanked by his bodyguards and party secretary-general Marshal Dlamini had to be pulled away from the gigantic stage to the backstage, where his bodyguards and other party leaders talked him down. The sound team had stopped the music and fixed their faulty cables, one of the DJs who had been on stage immediately left the stage. Earlier, during his keynote address, Malema was seen throwing the microphone down when the sound kept disconnecting. Initially, when the sound got cut, Malema paused and was given another microphone. The second time it did the same, he dropped the microphone and complained about paying a lot of money for such a “poor sound.” National party spokesperson Vuyani Pambo told the Daily News that Malema was disappointed at the sound constantly breaking off and went to the stage to reprimand the sound crew.  The red berets, South Africa’s third-largest political party had hosted the rally at People’s Park and painted the city red in celebration of the successful outcome from the November 2021 polls. EFF garnered support and gained seats in municipalities where it previously had no representation. In KZN, the party impressively went from 64 to 164 council seats and secured seven deputy mayor positions. On Friday, the party slaughtered four cows in Inanda, north of Durban, in preparation for the big feast for supporters at the People’s Park. Thousands of supporters descended on the event where they listened to the keynote address by Malema, who thanked them for voting for his party. To comment on this story send a WhatsApp message to our BackChat column on 071 485 7995. Daily News