DURBAN - Grant Lottering, a cyclist from Cape Town will be cycling non-stop for 48 hours covering 835km in an attempt to complete his 8th Cross Cape Im'possible Dream Tour. Lottering will set off on Saturday, January 15 from Plettenberg Bay, in aid of 34 children fighting life-threatening illnesses from the Reach For A Dream Foundation.  Lottering will tackle the challenging Cross Cape and Karoo Crossing Cape Cycle Routes across the Western Cape and aims to finish in the Cape Winelands in Stellenbosch on Monday, January 17.  Lottering said that the Im'possible Dream Tour will be challenging.  “Having driven this entire route by car during my recent reconnaissance, I know it is going to be an incredibly difficult challenge to cycle my 8th Im'possible Tour non-stop within 48 hours. It will mean riding day and night, no sleep, no stopovers, no breakfast, lunch or dinner, just one continuous agonising ride.” Lottering founded the first Im’Possible Tours in 2014 after suffering  a near-fatal accident in Trento, Italy, and was told cycling again would be impossible.  In his recovery, Lottering endured 12 surgeries and overcame cancer.  “Many people have had their livelihoods destroyed and are struggling to find a way out. I aim to conquer this attempt, not only for the 34 Reach for a Dream kids but also for everyone who faces massive challenges going into 2022, especially those who have lost hope. I want the story of my second chance at life and the mountains I have faced and overcome, and will face during this Im'possible Dream Tour, to inspire and encourage others not to give up. I want people to dream again, to believe again.” Loitering added that the Covid-19 pandemic has affected people, businesses and charity organisations.  “I am frustrated by the effects this pandemic has had on so many people and businesses, especially the knock-on effects on charitable organisations like The Reach for a Dream Foundation. I believe when one has a personal need, the best you can do is meet the need of someone else. That makes one mindful that there are always others worse off than we are.” Julia Sotirianakos, Reach for a Dream CEO, said that they are eternally grateful to have Lottering ride for them.  “We feel blessed to have Grant ride for us again this year. His passion and commitment to fulfil 34 dreams for children fighting the biggest battle of their lives is inspiring. Grant and our children have so much in common regarding values like tenacity, believing in dreams and being hopeful. We wish Grant all the best for his ride, and we will be cheering him on from the sidelines.” THE MERCURY