DURBAN - THE ANC in KwaZulu-Natal and the newly elected Moses Mabhida regional leadership have dared the ANC members who have threatened to take the party to court over the recent regional conference to go ahead, insisting that they have no basis for their case. This was in relation to the elective conference held in December in Pietermaritzburg where Msunduzi mayor Mzi Thebolla was elected regional chairperson and Richmond mayor Samora Ndlovu regional secretary. Emafini Siyabulela Nomaza and Mlungisi Zondi through their lawyers, MM Ntanzi Attorneys, lodged an objection, claiming that rules had been broken in staging the ANC Moses Mabhida Regional elective conference, including:  “Therefore it is clear that the regional conference did not meet the required minimum number of the delegates required to make the conference valid,” read the letter sent to provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli. The letter called for the provincial structure’s urgent intervention to nullify the regional elective conference for Moses Mabhida Region and to appoint an inclusive interim structure. In the letter, the aggrieved parties warned that they would only approach court should there be no positive response. Responding to the letter from the lawyers, Ntuli questioned the credentials of the members. He described their complaints as imprecise, vague and widely formulated. “It is trite in law that members of the ANC can only act in their individual capacities as members in good standing and not on behalf of branches or a class of members. Consequently, your clients are not at large to argue on behalf of other branches or members. “They are only confined to argue about how they were individually disadvantaged as members of the ANC and in breach of the contract they signed with the ANC,” said Ntuli in his response. The provincial secretary also dismissed the charge that the regional task team’s lifespan had come to an end and that the decisions it took were null and void. He stressed that the appointment and consequently re-appointment of ANC members to an RTT was the sole prerogative of the provincial executive THE MERCURY