KWAZULU-NATAL Transport MEC Peggy Nkonyeni said there had been a decrease in traffic accidents and fatalities in the province from December 3 until yesterday, when compared with the same period in the previous festive season. Nkonyeni was at the Mariannhill Toll Plaza yesterday to monitor traffic flow as holidaymakers made their way out of the province. Nkonyeni said she was proud of law-enforcement agencies for their hard work. “We have experienced a decrease in road fatalities and road crashes in KwaZulu-Natal which is why I am very appreciative of our teams that have been working hard during this festive period. Compared to 2020, we have experienced a decrease of 13%, so that means that our hard work is paying off.” She also conveyed her condolences to families who had lost loved ones in accidents, saying one death was one too many. She added that many accidents were caused by recklessness. “As people are travelling back home, they should observe all our laws and regulations because they are in place in order to save them. “Regarding the fatalities, we have recorded 221 deaths, crashes are 194. When we compare to 2020 the crashes were about 237 and fatalities 259.” She also said many motorists were arrested during the festive period for drinking and driving. Meanwhile Department of Transport spokesperson and special adviser to Minister Fikile Mbalula, Lawrence Venkile, said the department would soon be releasing the festive season final road crashes and fatality statistics. “These will be accompanied by an analysis of the numbers and what they mean for the government’s efforts to reduce fatalities on the roads,” he said. He said the Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences, which deals with the newly phased-in demerit points system, is an integral part of the measures intended to enforce compliance with the rules of the road and details on the current status will be part of what the minister will reflect on when releasing the final statistics.       THE MERCURY