DURBAN - South Africa's third-largest political party paints eThekwini’s People’s Park red as the party hosts its Siyabonga Rally. Supporters, mainly from KwaZulu-Natal, danced and sang in anticipation of party leader, Julius Malema’s keynote address, with local artists and performers keeping the crowd entertained throughout Saturday morning. The party’s military-like Defenders of the Revolution ensured that order prevailed and members of the movement behaved throughout the day. KwaZulu-Natal EFF chairperson Vusi Khoza said that hundreds of supporters were expected to descend on People’s Park in celebration of the party’s impressive performance in the last local government elections. “We are undoubtedly crowd-pullers, the masses of our people resonate with the EFF because of its clear policies that speak to the deep issues affecting our country. We are certain that this event will be a great success, as we thank those who have supported the red berets in the last elections,” he said. The EFF saw its support base grow as it impressively doubled its number of councillors to 164 in the November 2021 polls. On Friday the party slaughtered four cows in Inanda, north of Durban, in preparation for the big feast for supporters of the party in KZN. EFF eSwatini leadership, led by secretary-general Ncamiso Ngcamphalala, was also present at the ceremony.  Ngcamphalala told the Daily News that he and the other leaders could not miss the important event. “We are inspired by the leadership of this province, particularly because this is a very difficult province, given this is an ANC stronghold, but the EFF here managed to penetrate and change the power dynamics,” Ngcamphalala said. Gauteng-based EFF supporter Simphiwe Myeni told the Daily News that she had travelled all the way to the city to join the event to celebrate. The rally coincided with the African National Congress’s 110th birthday celebration held in Limpopo where President Cyril Ramaphosa is to address his members. Daily News