DURBAN - ANGRY northern KwaZulu-Natal residents want the Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC) to be sanctioned over the pollution spill in the Mvalo River. In a statement on its website dated January 6, the company’s environmental superintendent Msawenkosi Buthelezi said the spill happened on December 24 when an end wall of slurry pond 3 failed, resulting in a pollution spill of 1 500m³ of coal slurry. The statement added that upon receiving a report on the failure, mine management immediately began plugging the pond and initiated a clean-up operation, both manually and mechanically. “These clean-up operations will continue as guided by the relevant legislation.” It added that it was assessing possible damage caused to surrounding host communities and engaging the relevant local community forums and structures to identify any such damage and discuss resolutions thereof. “ZAC has a long-standing history of working closely with host communities – a policy we are proud of implementing. Over the past five years, ZAC has supplied treated, potable, piped water for both livestock and human consumption in the area. ZAC continues to do this at 23 communal taps at a rate of 2 511 000 litres per month.” The community said it had written to the mine this week demanding a meeting with management on what it intends to do to address the pollution and how it will assist the community. The letter details a litany of issues the community sees as failings on the part of the company. They alleged that the company had informed some of them very late about the pollution in the river and they now feared for their health as they had consumed the water. Community member Msizi Myaka said the mud polluted the Mvalo River that is used for drinking water, as well as for crops and livestock. The Mvalo River connects to the Mfolozi River, which is the only source of water for some of the community members. “Some of the community members were not informed or not aware that the river is polluted with dangerous chemicals and therefore drank the water. Can you imagine what the chemicals will do to their health? ZAC should have gotten a megaphone and told all the communities about what had happened. We want the mine, we want the job opportunities, what we do not want is the destruction of the environment,” he said. A letter seen by The Mercury that is apparently a demand to meet with management suggests that some of the communities that source their drinking water from the Mvalo and the Mfolozi rivers were not aware of the pollution until last week, despite the pollution happening in December. In the letter dated January 7, they demand a meeting with the mine’s management, saying they have “just become aware of the pollution”. Ward councillor in the Ulundi municipality, Fika Ndawonde, said the community was angry and had called for a meeting with traditional leadership to assess what action they could take against the company. The company has been apologetic about what happened, he said. “The day this happened, they just apologised, you can’t fight with someone who is apologising. But we fear that a lot more damage is still going to happen in the river as the rain washes all the pollution downstream.” The pollution has also put the company in the cross-hairs of the Zululand District Municipality, which said the pollution was inexcusable and the company’s licence should be revoked as a result. Zululand District Municipality mayor Thulasizwe Buthelezi strongly condemned the recent pollution of the Mvalo River and called for the company’s mining licence to be revoked. “Our municipality has invested more than R30 million into water infrastructure that is now being contaminated by the mine,” remarked Buthelezi. Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Ravi Pillay said that whenever an incident of this nature occurred, the first reaction of the government was to protect public health and the environment. He had written to the ministers of Minerals and Energy, Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment, and Water and Sanitation to inform them of the matter, he said. Pillay said he had directed that his department set up a joint operations committee to further probe the incident. ZAC did not respond to questions yesterday and referred to the statement that had been posted on its website. THE MERCURY