DURBAN - EFF leader Julius Malema on Saturday hailed supporters and those who voted for his party for ensuring there were EFF deputy mayors in KwaZulu-Natal, and for beating what he called the ANC "snake" in the province. But he told those who had voted in last November’s local government elections that they had forgotten to "kill" it. Malema was speaking during a Siyabonga (Thank You) rally held in Durban’s People’s Park. “The people of KZN and eThekwini beat the snake, but forgot to kill it. You should have punished and burned it to ashes because we don’t want to see the snakes wandering around in eThekwini. In 2024, we will burn it for good,” he said. “We thank the communities of Nongoma, Amajuba, Dumbe and eThekwini, who said to the EFF that we trust you. The supporters said in eThekwini that eight councillors were not enough EFF and gave us twenty-one.” Malema said the ANC in eThekwini lost elections but were in power because they had bought power, and gave the opposition money to buy the mayoral position. He also accused the leader of the ABC party and deputy mayor of the eThekwini Municipality, Philani Mavundla, of taking blood money and giving back to the ANC power they did not deserve. “Mxolisi Kaunda is not a mayor, he is a caretaker and will be removed. We can take him out whenever we want. He must never be comfortable because the people never voted for him,” Malema said. He thanked the residents who voted for the red berets, stating that they had weakened and reduced the seats of the ANC. The commander-in-chief of the EFF hailed his supporters and people for not being violent during last year’s local government elections. Malema stated that the opposition party, the Inkatha Freedom Party, was not an enemy, but a political competitor. He said the EFF’s enemy was the Democratic Alliance (DA). “We hate Helen Zille and the DA for taking our land and refusing to return it to the rightful owners. Some fools will say, but why did you vote for the DA; we did not vote the ANC because we want them out of power.” Malema said the reason the ANC’s birthday celebration was held in Limpopo was that President Cyril Ramaphosa was afraid to come to Moses Mabhida Stadium because the people of KZN would teach him a lesson. Speaking on Ramaphosa’s continuing enforcement of Covid-19 regulations, he said people were tired of these and beginning to question Covid-19, as they were beginning to see that they were now dealing with a scam. “If you want to know that Covid-19 is gone, just look at the journalists here today and you will see that none of them are wearing masks because they know that this is now a scam. Ramaphosa is using Covid-19 to evade accountability,” Malema said. “It is absolute nonsense to deny soccer teams to use the stadiums with their supporters watching these matches in stadiums, but political parties are allowed to gather and have rallies in the stadium.” Referring to uMlazi, he said he had heard that people were losing their RDP houses because they did not vote for the ANC, and urged EFF supporters in the area not to allow that. Malema also criticised vigilantes in Phoenix, who had killed people during the July unrest. He referred to the incident as a massacre. Daily News