DURBAN - EDUCATION MEC Kwazi Mshengu has urged Dassenhoek community members not to blame teachers after robbers allegedly stabbed four pupils during a robbery at a local school, saying teachers were not trained to provide security. It emerged during Mshengu’s visit at Dassenhoek Secondary School near Pinetown yesterday that classes were suspended following Wednesday’s incident that has left pupils, teachers and community members traumatised. It is alleged that a group of suspects armed with knives and a gun broke into the school premises and robbed pupils and teachers of their valuables. The four injured pupils reportedly stood up to the robbers, and were then stabbed. It is understood that all three suspects have been arrested. It was also revealed that of the three suspects, two were former pupils and the third was a pupil at a neighbouring high school. Mshengu said that the teachers’ presence during the ordeal should not be questioned. “Our communities and our parents must not ask where the teachers were in such instances. They were there, but they are not trained as security guards. They are not trained to carry guns when they come to school. “In fact, we don’t want any teacher or student to carry a dangerous weapon when they come to school. So don’t ask them where they were, because they were there, but they were at risk just like your kids,” said Mshengu, adding that protecting schools was everyone’s responsibility. “The safety of our schools is the responsibility of all of us. Their safety is in our hands as community members. The safety of taverns should not overrule that of our schools,” said Mshengu. He encouraged the members of the community to root out criminals. “We must go and hunt these criminals because it is our responsibility to protect schools,” he said. Mshengu said community members know the perpetrators and where illegal weapons were hidden, however, they choose not to say anything. “The message that we are leaving you with, as parents and community members, is that you must go back and claim your communities. Claim each and every street. “Protect your schools. Don’t harbour criminals,” said Mshengu, adding that counselling would be provided for teachers and students who were involved in the ordeal. One of the injured pupils has been discharged from hospital, while the others are still receiving treatment.  THE MERCURY