DURBAN – Severe flooding in parts of the Free State and North West on Tuesday caused damage to thousands of acres of crops between Christiana and Hertzogville and in some  instances completely destroyed the crops.  Farmers said they have been severely affected by the storm and agricultural organisation TLU SA has sent out an appeal for help. Hennie Roos, who farms between Hoopstad and Hertzogville, said that within a few hours, they had rainfall of 110mm, and the hail damaged his maize.  “We already had water damage due to the heavy rain, but Tuesday was the final nail in the coffin.  “Now we must wait and see. The planting season is over, so I cannot plant again. Everything is also inaccessible. It’s just one big mess! We cannot even get close to the fields because everything is under water and the roads are washed away. We must first wait and give time to get on the field to see what we can do. Maybe I will be able to plant wheat, but everything is uncertain.” Johan van den Berg, an independent meteorologist, said there was permanent damage in large maize districts, especially in the Free State but also in other provinces, such as the North West.  “In the short term, there will still be a lot of rain this coming weekend until about January 15th. Then rain is forecast again for the last week of January and the first two weeks of February. The chances of a large-scale flood in the Vaal and Orange Rivers are therefore great.” Van den Berg added that although there were drought spots or waterlogging spots at drylands every year, the area was much larger this year.  “Furthermore, hail damage is also a problem. Along with the rain in the north-western Free State, there was also a lot of hail in the past 36 hours.  “Farmers are currently unable to apply sufficient fertiliser, sunlight is low, waterlogging conditions are high and portions cannot be planted are all factors contributing to damage of 10 to 15%. More rain as is predicted and it is going to make it worse. Standing water can also escalate livestock diseases.” TLU SA said that the damage affected an area estimated to be ​​more than 6 000 hectares.  “Urgent steps are needed to mitigate the impact of this natural disaster on the farming communities in the affected areas.” TLU SA said it had sent a written proposal to the Free State Department of Agriculture to assist affected areas.  It said the districts in which the agricultural communities were the hardest hit should be declared as disaster areas and funding should be provided to assist farming communities hardest hit by the disaster to continue with their farming operations.  THE MERCURY