DURBAN - MULTI-talented singer, actress, writer and model Londiwe Ngubeni says that the sky is not the limit for her. The young creative is proudly from Durban. She was born and bred in the township of uMlazi and raised in Inanda. She also lived in Mayville. Ngubeni said that she began making money off her singing at a young age, but as she got older her father wanted her to focus on her studies. “I was doing music with a group formed by my late teacher, Simanga Ntuli. The name of the group was Intokozo, which went on to record its first album in 2000. In Grade 11, my dad made me quit because he wanted me to focus on my studies,” she said. Ngubeni said she continued to sing in the school assembly and went on to get sponsorship from another organisation where she performed in community plays in schools, prisons and other places. That is when her love for theatre began. While in matric, she ditched maths exams for The Lion King auditions at the Playhouse Theatre in Durban. “The auditions were on the day of my exams. I was not good at maths so I just wrote my exam number on the paper and then rushed to the auditions,” said Ngubeni. Unfortunately, that audition and five others she had in the following years for The Lion King were unsuccessful. But Ngubeni was undeterred and finally got her big break and joined the cast as storyteller, Rafiki. She was taken to Hong Kong Disneyland where she stayed with the production company for eight years, before deciding to pursue a solo career in music in 2017. Initially, her focus was house music but she then decided to dabble in AfroBeats, a popular genre in Hong Kong. In 2018 she wrote a controversial play, Impumelelo, which almost sold out. Last year she recorded her first studio album titled A different Breed and has had three successful concerts since. A photographer in Hong Kong convinced her to try modelling, and she went on to cast for popular lines such as Scandal, Dorina and her biggest one – Fenty by Rihanna. Ngubeni said some of the challenges she encountered were a lack of knowledge, resources and not having solid networks. She encouraged upcoming artists to do thorough research to easily navigate the industry. “Do your research, know what you want and take it one step at a time. It is okay to leave South Africa and explore opportunities in other countries,” said Ngubeni. She is currently promoting her album, doing modelling gigs and is looking to produce another play.   THE MERCURY