DURBAN - THE decision by the EFF to hold a rally in KwaZulu-Natal on the same day on which the ANC is set to celebrate its birthday indicates that EFF leader Julius Malema is eyeing the province for more growth for his party. This is the view of University of KwaZulu-Natal political analyst Siyabonga Ntombela, which comes in the wake of the EFF’s announcement that it will hold a rally to thank party members and supporters for a successful local government elections campaign in which it made inroads in many parts of KZN. It was announced on social media that the KZN Siyabonga rally would be held on Saturday, January 8, at Durban’s People’s Park and would be addressed by Malema. EFF KZN chairperson Vusi Khoza said the event was going ahead as planned and they expected a huge turnout on Saturday. He told The Mercury that as part of the celebrations, an animal would be slaughtered on Friday ahead of the rally the following day. Asked why they opted for the January 8 date for the rally, Khoza said no political party had a monopoly over certain days in the South African calendar. “We are celebrating growth in KZN. Whether that offends some is neither here nor there. Come Saturday, you will see what we mean by show of force. Everyone knows that when it comes to crowd-pulling the EFF has no competition,” said Khoza. He added that they had every reason to celebrate the massive gains they had made in KZN, citing how the EFF had moved from having 64 councillors across the province in the previous term to 164 councillors following the November 2 elections. “We are the only party that has demonstrated this kind of growth, and our projections are that we will continue to grow in the province,” Khoza insisted. According to Ntombela, the choice to hold a celebratory rally in KZN showed how politically shrewd Malema is. “There is never a coincidence where Malema is concerned. Every move is well calculated to achieve a certain objective. In this instance, it is quite clear that the EFF is serious about making further inroads in KwaZulu-Natal as we build up to the next elections,” he said. He pointed out that KZN was regarded as a strategic province by many political parties that sought to increase their national footprint. “As for the choice of date, it is quite apparent that it is a move that will unsettle many in the ruling party because January 8 is associated with the birth of the ANC in South African politics.” He noted that the EFF had emerged as a key player following the local government elections in many municipalities in KZN, adding that this had inspired the party to aim to do far better in the national elections. The analyst also noted that divisions along factional lines in the ANC created fertile ground for the EFF to grow its support base in KZN and even take some supporters from the ruling party. The ANC’s birthday celebrations will take place in Limpopo this year. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address about 2 000 party supporters and delegates at a rally at the old Peter Mokaba Stadium on January 8. As is the party’s annual tradition, Ramaphosa will use the platform to outline the ANC’s plans and address the challenges that have faced the country over the past year. THE MERCURY