DURBAN - AS THE race towards the ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial conference gains momentum, those close to the current treasurer, Nomusa Dube-Ncube, have disclosed that the former MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs (Edtea) is vying for the position of provincial chairperson. They said Dube-Ncube had a wealth of experience, adding that her elevation to the top post would be a “game changer” for KZN politics. They described her as a steady hand that could arrest the party’s decline that it suffered during the recent local government elections. Attempts to get comment from DubeNcube yesterday were unsuccessful. A source who is aware of Dube-Ncube’s prospects said she had been approached by branches who believed she would make a good provincial chairperson, and by extension, premier of the province. The position is currently held by Sihle Zikalala, and Dube-Ncube would probably have to face off with him should she decide to stand. “She has been approached by comrades who are lobbying her for deployment. They believe that with her wealth of experience she will be able to drive the development of KZN,” said the source. She has previously served as MEC for Finance, as well as Edtea MEC, MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, South African ambassador to the Czech Republic, and Speaker of eThekwini Municipality. “Importantly, some comrades believe that as the provincial chair and premier, she would ensure that the ANC won provincial government elections and would contribute millions of votes to the party so that it remained in power.” The source said they believed that Dube-Ncube was the only one with the credibility and the experience required to ensure a new trajectory of socio-economic development in KZN. The source said that at this stage Dube-Ncube would not speak on the matter, since it was something that needed to be processed by ANC branches, “and we support her decision”. “We want to shield her from unnecessary distractions and we want her to focus on preparing for the provincial budget speech which will assist in rebuilding this province.” ANC spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said the provincial conference should sit by June, as the party was heading to the national conference in December. He said the party would have to complete the regional conferences by the end of January, and thereafter start the processes for the provincial conference. THE MERCURY