DURBAN - THE KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, and the Provincial Executive Council has wished the people and government of the People’s Republic of China a prosperous Lunar New Year. The Lunar New Year will be celebrated on Tuesday, 1 February 2022. In a statement released by the Premier’s office, under the theme, “The Year of The Tiger”, Zikalala said he hopes that the New Year will be filled with economic vitality and agility, which are traits that characterise the tiger.  The Premier further acknowledged and applauded the diplomatic and economic ties that South Africa has forged with China. He said it is from this solid relationship that KwaZulu-Natal has also established strong ties with Guangdong, Shanghai and Fujian Provinces. “As the Province of KwaZulu-Natal, we are grateful to these provinces in particular and China in general for being a dependable ally of the people of KwaZulu-Natal and our country. As China celebrates the New Year, it is our earnest and honest hope that the New Year will bring power and prosperity which will cement our economic and historic ties,” said Zikalala. The premier added that inspiration and courage is drawn on the progress that has been made in Guandong and the near completion of the project started by the respective provinces - the South Africa Commodity Centre (SACC).  This comes after a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to facilitate trade between the country’s provinces and is set to be launched in the middle of 2022. The premier further acknowledged that the past two years have been difficult across the globe due to the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We applaud China for handling the pandemic successfully, and for taking part in producing vaccines that fight the pandemic head on. We also appreciate China for rising from the ashes to rebuild the economy which was heavily affected by the advent of the pandemic. KwaZulu-Natal and South Africa celebrate China’s success in this regard and continue to learn from this country and the Chinese people,” added Zikalala. He also applauded the government and business people of China for lending a hand, following the unparalleled scenes of violence that gripped the province in the month of July, which saw some people losing their lives and many businesses and infrastructure vandalised and demolished. “The Chinese government and its business people were among the first countries who offered help when the July mayhem engulfed our province. It is thanks to such efforts that KwaZulu-Natal is now poised for economic recovery,” said the premier. THE MERCURY