DURBAN – The number of people who fall victim to dog attacks is on the rise. Andrea Ording, a qualified animal behaviourist and dog trainer, shared with The Mercury some of the reasons why dogs attack. According to Ording, it is a misconception that dogs bite randomly or out of the blue. There is always an underlying reason for this, as well as context. Some of the reasons included: – Poor socialisation history: Habituating the puppy to be comfortable around people, things and other dogs during their  developmental period which is from about four weeks of age up to 16 weeks, is critical. After that period, whatever they have experienced sticks with them throughout their lives. – Failure to satisfy all the dog’s innate needs: This is usually due to poor research done on what it takes to be a dog parent. – Dogs that are in a heightened state of arousal through continual excitation. – Dogs that are extremely stressed: Dogs usually have a triggering stressor. There are usually other stressors on that particular day for the dog that pushed him over his bite threshold, possibly ones that have been missed or gone unnoticed by the pet’s owner. The stress hormone, cortisol, can stay in the system for 48 hours if something stressful happened the previous day. The dog’s stress/cortisol levels can be pushed even higher and this is referred to as “trigger stacking”. Ording added that there was no fixed method on how to avoid being attacked by a dog. “When a strange dog is approaching, turn your back, hold your arms very still, do not make eye contact and wait for the dog to move away. If the dog happens to knock you over, roll yourself into a ball and stay in that position until such a time that it goes away,” he said. He emphasised that dog attacks should not be classified to a particular breed. The behaviour displayed by dogs is a combination of genetics and the environment. “A dog representing the guarding types and is bred for guarding, and placed in an environment that reinforces the guarding and aggressive behaviour, has a higher probability to bite. However, placed in an environment that reinforces sociability , the dog may very well end up well-socialised and friendly, and vice-versa. A super friendly breed can end up aggressive if placed in an environment that reinforces aggression. We have to understand that the breeds are not aggressive or friendly; individual dogs are,” said Ording. As a dog attack prevention tip for owners, Ording added that bite prevention, basic training and early socialisation go a long way.  “The best advice is to upskill and have the ability to see what stresses your dog out. Once you are aware and understand the signs, once you notice and see a pattern of potential aggression, you have to seek professional help. You will be assisted in a behavioural programme. There is no cure for aggression,” he said. Ording emphasised that it is important to conduct research, basic training and socialisation when acquiring a dog and to get assistance when you notice something is off. THE MERCURY