DURBAN - The former ANC Youth League chairperson in KwaZulu-Natal, Kwazi Mshengu’s political future appears to be bright after his name appeared in four slates for deputy secretary position, ahead of the elective provincial conference. The slate that emerged last week, put various prominent party members in different positions and members are already discussing the names.  Although the origin of the slates is unknown, members said those who have created them wanted members to have their input before the formal nomination process began.  In the six slates that are currently in circulation in the social media, which the Daily News has seen, Mshengu’s name appears in four and he is touted for deputy secretary in all of them.  He refused to comment when the Daily News contacted him.  ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said the party was still focusing on regional conferences before starting talking about provincial conferences, adding that regions would decide whether they pronounce on provincial line-up or not during their conference.  In the same slates another name that also featured more than once is that of former eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede, who according to these slates must take over as provincial treasurer.  Gumede’s supporters’ spokesperson Ntando Khuzwayo said they were not surprised by her nomination, because she is a senior member of the ANC and regions trust her leadership.  However, he said her nomination was not coming from eThekwini since the region was still seized with its own conference preparations and it had not discussed the provincial preferences. “Nominations for provincial leadership is the work of branches and regions so we as the province would not say anything about people who are discussing their preferences. Mshengu, is currently Education MEC and also serves as eThekwini regional task team convener, a position equivalent to the chairperson.  He was the provincial chairperson before the structure was disbanded. The provincial conference is expected to take place in the middle of the year ahead of the national one at the end of the year. Daily News