DURBAN - The start of the academic year for KwaZulu-Natal schools yesterday had mixed results, with some schools able to conduct classes on the first day, while some did not open at all. Teacher unions, National Teachers’ Union (Natu) and the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) expressed general satisfaction about day one in most KZN schools, but emphasised that the provincial Department of Education could have done better. Naptosa’s Thirona Moodley said while pupil attendance was good, it was unfortunate that many parents failed to register their children last year and arrived at schools to have their children placed yesterday. “This must be discouraged as it impacts on the planning of the school and the learners are not assured that the schools closest to their homes will have a place to accommodate them,” she said. Moodley also expressed concern with schools that had reported staffing shortages, noting that those that did not have the full complement of staff would face challenges and learning would be delayed. “Schools have vacant Level 1 posts, one school reported 12 vacancies, others have also reported a large number of vacancies, anything between one and eight vacancies in one school. The department must prioritise the filling of vacant posts,” Moodley added. She noted that the storms in the province had caused serious damage in more than 190 schools and called on the department to swiftly conduct repairs, especially to the schools that were damaged during the July unrest. Natu acting president Sibusiso Malinga called on department officials to visit as many schools as possible in order to get a clear sense of what was happening on the ground. He said while the opening of schools had gone relatively smoothly, there were concerns over schools that were not constantly under the spotlight. “Sometimes the danger with the department’s senior officials is to visit schools that are known to be performing well so that a glossy picture is created. We should not do that but should be realistic about the challenges that are facing education,” said Malinga. The SA Democratic Teachers Union was not available for comment. Meanwhile, in flood-affected Ladysmith, the Windsor Secondary School was still busy with mop-up operations yesterday.   Navindra Rampath, principal of the school, said the floods had caused significant damage. “Unfortunately, we could not access the school and commence with the academic year because it was flooded,” said Rampath. He added that the infrastructure at school also suffered extensive damage. “Since the entire school was flooded, the stockroom was damaged, the water got to the grass cutters and lawn mowers, and the textbooks also got wet. We call on all stakeholders and the public to help however they can,” he said. He said parents were told not to send their children to school because it was hazardous. “The ground is muddy and slippery, there is water everywhere and there is a terrible stench in the air.” KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said the department had urged parents to prioritise the safety of children and not to take any risks. “Schooling has officially begun, unfortunately that is not the case in some parts of the province due to the heavy rains that were experienced in the last few days. However, we advise parents, teachers and students to put the safety of children first. “Where the water levels are still high and the rivers still filled up, we urge them not to attempt to cross.” Regarding placement of pupils, the department’s Sihle Mlotshwa admitted that there were problems regarding the registration of pupils on the first day of school, adding that this was unavoidable. He noted that some parents had opted to send their children to the best performing schools and this caused delays to the start of learning. Asked whether he was aware of any incidents of violence and lockouts, Mlotshwa said they were only aware of an episode in Mkhambathini, near Pietermaritzburg, where 11 schools delayed their opening by a day owing to a squabble over traditional leadership. “Our approach remains that we want to see all learners in classes by the end of the month, it is a matter in which the department is pulling out all the stops to see it being realised,” said Mlotshwa. Meanwhile, it was reported that two pupils died following a stabbing incident involving pupils from JG Zuma High School and Ikusasa Lethu Secondary School. The incident could not be confirmed by the police.   THE MERCURY