DURBAN - THE coalition between the IFP and EFF hangs in the balance after the red berets this week threatened to withdraw their support in several KwaZulu-Natal municipalities due to the IFP’s failure to respect their agreement. The coalition between the two parties has made it possible for the IFP to take control of several hung municipalities from the ANC after the local government elections last year. EFF KZN chairperson Vusi Khoza insisted yesterday that it was up to the IFP to retain control of its municipalities in KZN, saying this was possible if the party supported them in their quest to take charge of the Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC) in the City of Joburg. According to Khoza, the reason the EFF wanted to take over the MPAC was to ensure that the finances of the municipality were in good shape. “Our principle on the matter is that thugs should not be allowed to gain access, or continue to enjoy access, to public funds, and holding the chair to this committee would ensure that this is realised,” said Khoza. He said the EFF was not asking for much given the support it gave the IFP during the local government elections. The EFF held a workshop this week and later announced that it was planning to reverse its support for the IFP, which was crucial to the latter landing many municipalities in northern KZN. The EFF said one of the municipalities it would target would be Nongoma, which falls under the IFP’s stronghold of Zululand District Municipality. Khoza blamed the IFP leadership for being stubborn in withholding their support for the EFF in the City of Joburg, and warned of dire consequences should the support not be forthcoming. “We will start from the top with Zululand and move along towards the south, and then people will see how serious the EFF is. We hope that it will not come to that,” Khoza said. He said they were hoping for discussions on the matter to be concluded soon. It is understood that IFP secretarygeneral Siphosethu Ngcobo held discussions with the EFF leadership this week. IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa would not say much about the prospect of losing control of municipalities in KZN, but indicated that negotiations were taking place. “On this matter the work is in progress. The IFP will communicate its stance once the ongoing discussions have come to a conclusion, so that we do not say conflicting things,” he said. The IFP also held its National Executive Committee meeting this week, at which the matter was believed to have been discussed. News of the EFF’s possible withdrawal of support for the IFP has raised concerns that the party could find itself on the opposition benches, with possibly the ANC gaining control of those municipalities. According to observers, the EFF’s stance demonstrated the volatility of coalition governments and gave a snapshot of the possible chaotic nature that awaits some municipalities in the country where there was no outright winner. University of KwaZulu-Natal political analyst Siyabonga Ntombela said this week’s developments demonstrated how the EFF and its leader Julius Malema had emerged as power-brokers in South African politics. “Malema is a born politician who simply understands that politics is a numbers game, and is demonstrating how to use the numbers to his advantage,” said Ntombela. He noted that this would be a testing period for the IFP because it did not want to lose control of its municipalities, especially with the national elections on the horizon. “The IFP is caught between a rock and a hard place because in the past it has developed a reputation for being conservative. So if the party gives in to the EFF’s demands, it may lose that cloak of conservatism and be seen as a compromising party and lose its traditional appeal. “But would you want to lose municipalities just for a reputation? I would not,” said Ntombela. He predicted that the coming days would see frantic negotiations between the two parties, but insisted that whatever the outcome, the EFF would still emerge as the winner. THE MERCURY