DURBAN - UGU District Municipality faces ballooning costs to fix its ageing water infrastructure, with the amount required to ensure a steady supply now close to R2 billion. The municipality said that even if full funding was provided, stabilising the water supply could take several years. Newly elected mayor Phumlile Mthiyane told The Mercury yesterday that the municipality had written to the Water and Sanitation Minister in July last year, asking for help to sort out the area’s water crises. She said the ministry had visited the area and the municipality was hopeful that it would provide the help needed. “We have submitted a business plan to the national minister. We need close to R2bn to address the water challenges. A large portion of the money will go towards upgrading the infrastructure that we already have in place. “There are areas like uMuziwabantu that have been declared (water disaster areas). In such areas we are prioritising the building of boreholes, as that will assist the community,” she said. The amount needed to solve the district’s water supply problems had doubled from what was reported by The Mercury just a month earlier, when the municipality said it needed close to R1bn to address challenges brought on by ageing infrastructure. Ongoing water shortages are threatening to cripple the area’s once-booming tourism business. Establishments offering accommodation have previously said that water shortages had pushed them to the brink of bankruptcy, with tourists reluctant to visit owing to the water disruptions. Many enquired about the availability of water before booking to stay. This weekend, the provincial Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) revealed it had given R19million in grant funding to the municipality to address some of its water challenges. The grant, Cogta said, followed a rigorous assessment of the water infrastructure, done by its technicians in conjunction with their counterparts from the district. It said the money would be used to repair the Bhobhoyi water scheme (St Helen’s Rock), which requires upgrades to the tune of R15m. The rest of the grant is for the drilling of 12 boreholes in the uMuziwabantu and uMzumbe local municipalities. Cogta said that through the roll-out of the grant, the department aimed to stabilise the provision of water within the district. Mthiyane said that during the festive season there were areas that faced water challenges, including Gamalakhe. She said the municipality aimed to stabilise the district’s water supply before the end of the current term, provided funds were available. Mthiyane pleaded with community members to refrain from connecting illegally to the system, saying this was a major contributor to the failure of their infrastructure, as well as to pipe bursts. The Cogta grant funding was welcomed by the opposition party in the council. DA councillor Leonard Ngcobo said it could provide immediate, although temporary, relief for long-suffering residents. “In December, it was a disaster; there are areas that were without water for 16 days. The impact of that on tourism and businesses has been devastating. Tourists either did not enjoy themselves, or they did not come because of water. “Residents in rural areas and in suburban areas alike are suffering. In my area of Phungashe, we have not had tap water for more than 18 months. The infrastructure is there, but the water is not coming out,” he said. Ngcobo said that in some areas, such as Harding, the situation was worse. He said that it was a positive development that the MEC had allocated a portion of the grant money to be used to drill boreholes in areas that needed them to provide “a temporary solution”. “Another serious challenge is our call centre, which is quite dysfunctional. The residents call and they get no assistance, not even a reference number, which means that we as councillors cannot follow up on their queries.” THE MERCURY