DURBAN – SWEETS manufacturer Richester Foods says the specific batch of lollipops that came under scrutiny this week after pupils at a KwaZulu-Natal school fell sick after allegedly eating the sweets, has been sent for testing. This comes after pupils from uMzovane Primary School in kwaMaphumulo fell sick after allegedly consuming XPOP Energy Red Dragon lollipops they bought from a vendor on Monday. In a statement the company said it had identified the exact product batch in question which was manufactured on September 28, 2021. It said it had submitted the product samples of this specific batch of lollipops for independent chemical and microbiological testing, and the results of this testing were expected next Tuesday. The company said that according to the KZN Department of Health, the pupils were treated for mild symptoms at a local hospital and were then discharged the same day. Health officials have confirmed, however, that the cause of the children’s illness has yet to be determined. Richester Foods managing director, Dr Hussein Cassim, said the company had launched a full internal investigation into the matter.“As a sweets seller, children are at the very heart of our business. The health and safety of our customers is our highest priority, and we are unequivocally committed to absolute and complete food safety,” he said. “This is one of our most popular products, and it has been in circulation since 2017, and we are therefore taking urgent action to get to the bottom of the matter, and to allay all concerns.” The company further confirmed that a total of six deliveries of this specific batch were sold to five customers, and that it had contacted each of these customers to discuss the incident and any other potential unreported issues. While none of these other customers had received any complaints, the manufacturer then requested that as an added precautionary measure, they also submit any unsold products from this product batch for testing. It said it had met yesterday with the Department of Health and the National Consumer Council (NCC) for an information-sharing session. “The department and NCC noted that neither is launching a formal investigation into the matter at this time, but that they will await the test results from Richester’s own internal and independent investigations,” read a statement. During the meeting, one issue that was raised was the question of the “warning sign” on the company’s lollipop label, which mentions “brain boost, sports power and extreme flavour”. Cassim emphasised that the caution sign was merely part of a branding exercise, and that the lollipop did not contain any stimulants such as caffeine or taurine. “We would like to reassure all consumers and the public that the production of our sweets is closely overseen by professional quality control personnel,” said Cassim. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education confirmed that the children had returned to school after being taken to hospital on Monday. “Eighty-five pupils were taken to hospital after they complained about severe stomach pains and cramps. All of them had apparently eaten a particular lollipop sold at the gate by informal traders,” said Mthethwa. He added that upon their arrival at the hospital, the children were treated and then released on the same day. “All 85 learners are back at school and are in good condition.” THE MERCURY