DURBAN - THE KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza has called on members of the community to join forces with the government to intensify the fight against drug abuse,  the abuse of women and children and other social ills plaguing the community. Khoza and MPs Mina Lesoma, Nigel Gumede and Cyril Xaba, eThekwini Municipality councillors and representatives from different sectors, held a peace march yesterday through the streets of Clermont. Speaking at KK stadium in Clermont, Khoza cited drug abuse and drug peddling as a contributing factor in the rising number of gender-based violence cases and the increase in teenage pregnancy. She said that children as young as 9 were falling prey to sexual abuse, adding that urgent action was needed. “You find children as young as 10 years old in the labour ward carrying a child. In those cases it is obviously not consensual. We would like to call on the community to take a stand because these children did not ask to fall pregnant. “They are abused by their biological fathers, uncles and brothers at home and we are told to keep quiet and withdraw the rape charge,” said Khoza. She said there was a growing number of abuse cases that were being withdrawn after payments were received. “We have said to the police, if there is anyone who is going to withdraw a case of abuse, the police must hold the individual withdrawing the case so that we as the community can intervene and find out if this person is the perpetrator or not, because abuse kills the very soul of an individual and hampers their confidence and ability to love wholeheartedly,” said Khoza. She said community members must lend a hand in identifying the perpetrators. “Our children must be protected from those cakes that are laced with drugs because consumption thereof leads to addiction and destruction of children’s lives. As the department we are committed to helping those children who have been hooked on drugs,” she added.   Khululekani Mbhele, ward 20 councillor in KwaDabeka, said that he was pleased about the initiative as it highlighted the issues faced in the community. “We are faced by the plague of young people who are consuming drugs. “Since 2022 began, we are seeing funerals of young people almost every week as they get into criminal activities and drug abuse, which is a major social ill for our ward. “So we are happy that Social Development has taken a stand against this,” said Mbhele.   THE MERCURY