DURBAN - THE Department of Public Works and Infrastructure (DPWI) says it will take action against those who seek to “illegally benefit from state infrastructure projects”. The department was commenting after a group of armed men attempted to forcefully take over the Durban High Court construction site on Tuesday. It said in a statement that the men stormed the site at 8am on Tuesday. “A heavily armed group of men, allegedly from a local development forum, forced access on to the site, stopped workers and chased away contractors appointed by the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure in an attempt to gain control of the construction site. “The acting director-general of the department, Imtiaz Fazel then issued an instruction for SAPS to be called for assistance and for charges to be laid. SAPS and the SAPS Tactical Team responded, arresting six people in the process,” the statement read. The department said Fazel commended the police for making swift arrests. “It is such disruptions that have led to delays in many projects, disrupting service delivery and holding the country to ransom. As a department we will prosecute, to the fullest extent of the law, anyone who seeks to illegally benefit from state infrastructure projects.” The department said the high court redevelopment and renovation project was expected to be completed in September 2025 at a cost of R850 million. The Office of the Premier said it rejected attempts to tarnish Radical Economic Transformation by engaging in illegal acts. “In this regard, Premier Sihle Zikalala commends the swift action by police which will send a strong message and put an end to extortion and violence on construction sites,” the premier’s office said. Professor Bonke Dumisa, an economic analyst, said that under no circumstances should blackmailing or hijacking a construction project be condoned. “This is not the way to address unemployment or BEEE, or transformation, there are proper channels to address these matters. I feel the government needs to deal with this situation head-on as they have dealt with the situation of truck drivers blockading the N3.” Professor Irrshad Kaseeram, the deputy dean of research at the University of Zululand, said that there have been incidents of intimidation at other construction sites in the province. Kaseeram said these acts could be described as the work of organised crime and required tough, decisive action, including a strong police presence and longer prison sentences. THE MERCURY