KWAZULU-NATAL MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, has cracked the whip on government officials and contractors for delays in a project aimed at assisting elderly residents in KwaSwayimane in the Umshwathi Local Municipality. Khoza yesterday embarked on Operation Siyahlola to see what progress has been made in projects earmarked for the elderly. Numerous cases of sexual abuse of senior citizens has plagued KwaSwayimane since 2012. This led the department to build a R22.3 million facility where the elderly could go during the day.  The department said when Khoza hosted an indaba in the area in 2019, senior citizens said while they were safe during the day they felt vulnerable to attacks at night. A decision was then taken to reconfigure the facility to allow for elderly residents to live there. The MEC emphasised she wanted to see the project taking off to ensure senior citizens were protected.  “We are not happy that the first phase to start taking in residents has not started. We should be talking about the welfare and safety of the residents already occupying the first phase of the project,” she said. Khoza called out government officials and contractors for the delay in the implementation of the first phase of the project. She added that while it was important to provide opportunities  to upcoming contractors, good quality work was also important. “It is important to master the first phase as we will be building a second phase of an old age home to accommodate over 100 residents. We cannot tolerate poor workmanship in building structures to be occupied by older persons,” she said. She added that it was imperative that the home was well-equipped to take care of the sick. She added that the second phase of the project to assist the elderly in the area involved the construction of a R13 million fully fledged old age home in the area. Khoza expressed her gratitude to the Gcumisa clan for availing land for the home to be built. Mayor of Umshwathi Local Municipality, Mandla Zondi, who accompanied the MEC during the visit, applauded the department for its commitment to safeguard the lives of the people.  THE MERCURY