DURBAN - THE Cabinet decision to allow school pupils to return to full-time attendance has been largely welcomed by those in the education sector. Cabinet announced in a statement on Monday night that pupils can return to full-time attendance. “Primary, secondary and special schools will return to daily attendance. The regulatory provision for social distancing of one metre for learners in schools has also been removed. The Ministers of Health and Basic Education will in the coming days issue directives reflecting on this new approach,” the statement said. The Education Department said full-time attendance was expected to start on February 7. The issue of rotational learning has been under the spotlight in recent weeks with civil society organisations and the DA calling for it to end. The DA had filed a court application to compel the Education Department to do away with the rotational schedule. The department had introduced the programme due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Matakanye Matakanya, general secretary of the National Association of School Governing Bodies, said: “We welcome the decision by the Cabinet. We have been requesting for a long time for the Minister of Basic Education to speak to the Department of Health and the National Coronavirus Command Council to let the children all come back to school.” Professor Labby Ramrathan from the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s School of Education said that allowing pupils to return to full-time learning would allow for a sense of normalisation to return. “Learning has been severely impacted by the rotational timetable. Although we still have to be wary of the Covid-19 pandemic, there are positive signs that allow for the return of full-time learning due to increased vaccination. We can see there has been a decline in Covid-19 numbers since the fourth wave and there are signs that the coronavirus is becoming endemic like flu and we are able to treat people symptomatically.” Dr Thabo Msibi, dean and head of the School of Education at UKZN, also said that he was in full support of Cabinet’s decision. “I think it’s a fantastic move to allow full-time learning. The rotational timetable caused a loss in education and a decline in the amount of school time. This will help learners to catch up and return to normal learning.” Thirona Moodley, provincial CEO of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA, said that the teachers’ union welcomed the decision. “The world is in the third year of the pandemic. It has not only impacted on lives and health, but also on our economies and schooling. Schooling and education in general are dependent primarily on person-to-person contact; a complete reliance on online lessons cannot effectively replace the traditional way of teaching and learning.” Sibusiso Malinga, acting president of the National Teachers’ Union, said the union did not have a problem with learners going to full-time learning; however, it believed there were still risks due to the pandemic. “Historically, the Department of Education doesn’t have enough space, how do they cope with social distancing? There is also the issue of classrooms being full to capacity.” Vee Gani, chairperson of the Parents Association of KZN, said that the decision was taken due to a decline in Covid-19 cases. “The virus is still highly transmissible and we know that a lot of people want schooling to return to full-time learning. “We have to wait and see what strategies the government will implement to prevent the spread of Covid 19.” THE MERCURY