DURBAN- Durban inventor Simphiwe Ntuli has created a one-of-a-kind smart watch to help parents keep track of their children Simphiwe Ntuli, a jewellery designer from uMlazi, said he saw a business opportunity and decided to enter into the safety technology sector after noting a rise in the number of missing children. “We always hear of a child going missing and children are typically not allowed to carry gadgets to school, so I saw an opportunity to create a product that would be profitable for me, while also ensuring that my passion for safety was upheld,” he explained. Ntuli said that the watch comes with a number of features. “The KV Track watch enables you to track your child’s movements and see where they are. The Geo-Fence feature gives you a report of your child’s whereabouts if they leave the parameters you have consented to. Each watch has a unique code that can be linked to an application called SE Track on your cellphone, which then helps you to track their movement. It also allows for phone calls to be made,” he said. Ntuli said he started his watch business a few years ago but had to stop when production costs exceeded his profits and only relaunched late last year. “I started this business in 2017, then it failed because it was expensive to produce and people were not willing to pay the amount I was charging. My selling price was apparently quite high at that time. However, after a revisit to the drawing board, I decided to reopen my watch business late 2021, as I now had a better understanding of the market and a new production team,” he added. He said that although the trackable smart watches are his brainchild, he does not create them himself. “I am not a tech-savvy person so there is another company that I work with to create the watches. I simply give them the specifications and then they create it according to my demands,” he said. He said that his product is made special by the fact that it is a one-of-a-kind creation that is easily accessible and affordable. Ntuli described his target market as parents, from all walks of life. “My target market is not in any particular class of earners or race. People have different commitments throughout the day, which sometimes takes their attention away from their children, or maybe because the kids are in school or something of that sort. So that is my target market – anyone with a child and wants to monitor their movements,” he said. In the future, he wants to tackle the issue of women and child abuse by creating a safety device that would allow victims of abuse to call for assistance with just the push of a button. The watches are available in black, blue, purple and pink and cost R500. They can be purchased from Ntuli via his Facebook page called the KV Track or via contact him 062 427 4248.   THE MERCURY