DURBAN - WHILE President Cyril Ramaphosa spoke to the concerns of ordinary South Africans regarding service delivery, economic decline and the high rate of crime and lawlessness yesterday, it remained to be seen if any of the goals to tackle the country’s problems would be achieved. This was the view of political analysts, economists and a civil society organisation last night, after Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation address (Sona). Speaking on socio-economic issues, Ramaphosa said the R350 Social Relief of Distress grant, which brought relief to the unemployed during the Covid-19 lockdown, would continue for another year. This, as he called for fundamental change to revive the economy. He said the government was undertaking far-reaching measures to unleash the potential of small businesses, micro businesses and informal businesses, including setting up a task team to look at the red tape affecting them. He said the present situation of deep poverty and inequality was unacceptable. “As social partners, government, labour, business and community entities we have begun discussions on the trade-offs needed to take the country forward.” On the issue of corruption, Ramaphosa said those responsible for state capture would be punished. “Since the beginning of the year, I have been provided with the first two parts of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. By no later than June 30, I will present a plan of action in response to the commission’s recommendations.” Regarding the July unrest, Ramaphosa said the panel report released this week had made damning findings which would be addressed. “We will begin by filling critical vacancies and addressing positions affected by suspensions in the State Security Agency and Crime Intelligence. “We will soon be announcing leadership changes in a number of security agencies to strengthen our security structures. The staffing of the public order policing unit of the SAPS will be brought to an appropriate level.” He added that government had established specialised multi-disciplinary units to address economic sabotage, extortion at construction sites and vandalism of infrastructure. On load shedding, he said during the past year, the government had taken firm steps to bring additional generation capacity online and several new energy generation projects will be coming online over the next few years. University of KwaZulu-Natal academic and analyst Dr Lubna Nadvi said Ramaphosa had attempted to address the concerns of ordinary South Africans. She added that in mentioning the problem of corruption in the public sector, including the recent report on state capture, he had also managed to grab the attention of many. “He has mentioned the importance of boosting local manufacturing and the importance of boosting small business which is crucial for the country’s economy. The big question is whether these set targets will be met,” said the analyst. Pietermaritzburg Economic Justice and Dignity Group’s Mervyn Abrahams said he had been hoping for a sense of confidence from the speech. “After what the people of this country have been through with the unrest last July and the hollowing of the state by greedy individuals, we needed a sense of a state that is ready to take charge,” said Abrahams. He added that if the government delivered on dealing with crime in all its forms and created grounds for small businesses to grow and create jobs, people would hail this year’s address as a milestone in the country’s history. Another expert, Peter Baur from the University of Johannesburg’s Department of Economics and Econometrics, said the address had been encouraging in that it had identified problems and sought to provide possible solutions. “What needs to happen now is that this commitment to fighting crime and corruption needs to be visible. He must come down hard on lazy civil servants at all levels of government in order to continue restoring confidence.” Baur said the value of task teams announced by the president would be appreciated if only there were tangible results in the end. He pointed out that the setting up of the many task teams was also an admission of shortcomings in the public service when it came to certain skills. Economist Professor Bonke Dumisa said there were some positive takeaways from the speech, this included the establishment of a team that would seek to clear the red tape that impeded investments and the starting of businesses in the country. He said the speech had also touched on the issue of cable theft, saying the government needed to give more details on this issue because of the negative impact on the economy. Political analyst with the University of KwaZulu-Natal Siyabonga Ntombela said the president had spoken candidly on some issues, but had glossed over some critical aspects that were of national interest. “I found him to be honest when he spoke on the state of the economy, he stated clearly that the government does not create jobs only the conditions that allow for investment and job creation, that was the truth.” THE MERCURY