HEALTHCARE worker unions have condemned the murder of a nurse at Tembisa Hospital on Wednesday. The nurse was shot dead by her police officer partner in the hospital’s parking lot. The Health & Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa (Hospersa), Young Nurses’ Indaba Trade Union (YNITU) , the Public Servants’ Association (PSA) and the Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) have passed on their condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the nurse. Motalatale Modiba, Gauteng Health Department spokesperson, said the 30-year-old police officer entered the hospital driving a State vehicle with blue lights on and parked at the accident and emergency department’s parking lot. Modiba said the man then called his 30-year-old partner, who was on duty at the time, to come to the parking lot.  “Upon arrival, the police officer opened fire on the enrolled nursing assistant and turned the gun on himself.” The nurse was declared dead on the scene while the officer is in hospital. YNITU said security at all health facilities should be prioritised.  “Our hospitals and clinics are exposed and viewed as easy target areas for various criminal elements and perpetrators of GBV (gender-based violence).” YNITU said the union welcomed the speedy reaction of the department to arrange for staff and patients who witnessed the incident to get counselling. Hospersa Gauteng provincial secretary Bongi Khuzwayo also called for  improved security measures in hospitals and clinics for the safety of health workers and patients. Khuzwayo said the union wanted the health department to review the security measures in hospitals and clinics.  “While the handling of firearms is within the domain of law enforcement officers, we cannot turn a blind eye to the serious security gap that this fatal incident unveiled at our health facilities.  It is clear that more needs to be done to improve the safety of our health workers in hospitals and clinics.” The PSA said it was concerned about the ability of the SAPS to ensure its officers who are allowed to carry weapons are responsible and in the right state of mind.  “There have been many incidents where police officers killed their spouses and family members with the weapons provided by the state. Government must ensure that stringent measures are put in place to control the allocation of weapons and ammunition to police officers and take steps to assist its officials in dealing with emotional stress.” Javu Baloyi, CGE spokesperson, said it would be monitoring developments around the matter, taking into cognisance that the perpetrator of the crime was also fighting for his life.  THE MERCURY