DURBAN - TWO-year-old Chazlyn Naicker and her 14-year-old brother Ainzlee were killed while their mother Charlene is in a critical condition after a shooting on Friday night in their home in Welbedacht East in Chatsworth. Charlene’s sister, Samantha Windvogel, said the family were devastated and struggling to come to terms with the deaths of Chazlyn and Ainzlee. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala said: “On Friday at 8.30pm police officers responded to a report of a shooting in the Welbedacht East area in Chatsworth where three armed suspects opened fire on a family.” Gwala added that charges of murder and attempted murder were being investigated by Chatsworth SAPS. “The motive for the attack is unknown.” Windvogel said Charlene’s husband and her mother were first on the scene. “Chazlyn passed away on the scene, Ainzlee made it to hospital but passed away early on Saturday. We have no idea why this happened and why anybody would have a motive to kill a 2-year-old child and her 14-yearold brother and leave my sister fighting for her life. My sister was getting ready to serve her family supper. “I can’t understand how somebody can come into somebody’s home and just open fire and kill a baby. My sister is a mother of six and now she has lost two of her children. Her whole family is traumatised.” Windvogel said the children’s funeral will take place on Saturday. “It is very difficult to have to plan a funeral in this situation. My sister is in critical condition and she still calls for Chazlyn and Ainzlee. We are unable to tell her that they died and that she won’t even be there for the funeral.” Windvogel added that the family want answers. “I wouldn’t wish anybody to experience what we are going through now. We want justice for my sister, Chazlyn and Ainzlee. We want the savages who did this to be brought to justice.” Ward councillor Anoop Rampersad said he had been talking to police about increased patrols in the area. “I have been asking for police patrols in Welbedacht East and although there has been agreement, we are still not seeing patrols. “Recently there was a donation of vehicles to the police. I can’t understand why we are still not seeing more police patrols. This is something that I will raise at the next CPF meeting.”    THE MERCURY