DURBAN - ANC MP Mervyn Dirks said yesterday that while he was disappointed with the governing party’s decision to block President Cyril Ramaphosa’s appearance before the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa), he was not surprised. He was commenting a day after attempts by opposition party members, including the DA and EFF, to have Ramaphosa appear before the committee were thwarted by ANC MPs who used their majority to block the proposal at a meeting on Wednesday. Six ANC MPs voted against Ramaphosa appearing, while four opposition parliamentarians insisted on his appearance. Dirks had initiated the move in December to have Ramaphosa explain himself to Scopa regarding what he knew about the use of public money to fund ANC activities. This after an ANC NEC meeting discussion was leaked in which the president was heard making reference to this. “I am not surprised because I expected the ANC to take that stance of blocking the president,” said the MP who has since been placed under suspension by the governing party. He remained steadfast that he had been correct to bring the matter to Scopa, and dismissed suggestions that he had acted out of line or even brought the ANC into disrepute. He said he had been demonstrating loyalty to the country’s Constitution in line with the oath he took when becoming an MP. “I will not apologise to the ANC for what I have done because there is nothing wrong with it. All I did was to call on the president to help clarify himself on a matter that was already in the public domain,” Dirks said. He added that he believed in the principle of the separation of powers, and the need for members of the executive to account to Parliament. He also denied claims that he was a rebel and part of the Radical Economic Transformation (RET) faction of the ANC, which is seen to side with former president Jacob Zuma. “I am not a rebel, but am an individual who has always spoken his mind. As for being part of an RET faction, I don’t know what that means. What I do know is that Radical Economic Transformation is a policy position adopted by the ANC at Nasrec in 2017, and I was part of that conference and therefore am bound by the conference decision to support this policy,” Dirks said. He added that it was unfair that many people in the country were living under tough conditions while a minority lived a life of opulence. “That is why we believe that the state should intervene in the economy and bring about the kind of transformation that is needed,” Dirks said. Despite the setback, the MP said he would not seek another political home because he belonged to the ANC. “I am a disciplined member of the ANC who believes that the ANC is a leader of society, and as such its members should put the interests of the country before the party’s,” Dirks said. The DA said it would continue to push for Ramaphosa to appear before Scopa to explain his stated knowledge of the misuse of state funds. DA MP Alf Lees accused ANC MPs of following party orders by back-pedalling from the prior unanimous Scopa decision to invite Ramaphosa to appear before the committee. “The decision by the ANC to block the president’s appearance is a complete obfuscation and a vain attempt to divert Scopa’s attention away from the clear message that Ramaphosa ‘knows’ of the misuse and fraudulent abuse of state funds,” said Lees. Scopa chairperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said he had no comment other than the one he had made at the meeting. “It is both unreasonable and unfair to expect a chairperson to pass judgment or express feelings on decisions taken by a committee he/she presides over,” said Hlengwa. He added that the secretariat and legal advisers would put together a framework on how the matter could be concluded. In his written response to Scopa, Ramaphosa denied having direct knowledge of the misuse of public funds or information that certain ministers or officials directed the use of public funds during the campaign for positions in the ANC. He said some of the information he was referring to was contained in the High-Level Panel Report that was released in 2018. He said that other information came from the Zondo Commission. Attempts to get comment from presidential spokesperson Tyrone Seale were unsuccessful. THE MERCURY