DURBAN - THE financial woes of the Msunduzi Municipality may worsen as the DAcontrolled uMngeni Municipality seeks to cut the revenue the Pietermaritzburgbased municipality generates by supplying electricity to its areas. UMngeni Municipality, which is the first DA-controlled municipality in KwaZulu-Natal, wants the Msunduzi Municipality to stop supplying electricity to the upmarket Hilton area. Hilton falls under the uMngeni Municipality, but gets its electricity supply from the cash-strapped Msunduzi. Hilton is one of the wealthiest areas in the KZN Midlands, with luxurious estates where houses can sell for up to R8 million. It is also considered to be among the areas that has the highest percentages of residents who pay their electricity bills every month. Msunduzi has a budget of R5.2 billion and electricity alone contributes about 51%, which is R2.6bn. Both municipalities were unclear about how much Hilton contributed to this, but councillors in both areas claimed it was a “lot”. In the long term, uMngeni said it wanted to take over the supply of electricity to this area and in the short term, it wanted Msunduzi to relinquish the maintenance of basic infrastructure such as street lights to uMngeni and pay the municipality for their maintenance. UMngeni said it wanted a reliable electricity service to stabilise supply to its residents while also generating revenue. It also wants a service-level agreement that would allow it to take over the maintenance of basic infrastructure to be put in place within the next six months. The primary objective is to take over the entire electricity supply within two to three years. The move could prove destructive to the finances of the embattled Msunduzi. The municipality recently revealed that it was near bankruptcy and was struggling to pay suppliers, and owes money to Eskom and Umgeni Water. It also revealed that it was battling every month to pay salaries to its staff. “I will be meeting with Msunduzi mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla in the coming days and one of the things we will be discussing is moving of the electricity supply from Msunduzi to uMngeni Municipality,” said uMngeni mayor Chris Pappas in an interview with The Mercury yesterday. “It does not make sense that our municipality is supplied by another municipality and we all know that the Msunduzi Municipality is faced with numerous challenges that often leave the residents without power for days. “We cannot have a situation where an area that has a 90-100% payment rate is left without power for days – there have been instances where businesses in this area have been left without power for six days, you cannot run a business like that. “The challenge we are faced with is that the supply from the Msunduzi Municipality side is unreliable, their customer service is unresponsive and when you call their call centre, you never get hold of them. “It does not make sense that residents of the same municipality pay different prices for electricity. The rates charged by uMngeni are lower than the ones charged by Msunduzi,” he said. Pappas said change could result in complete decoupling from the Msunduzi infrastructure. They will look to lay down new infrastructure, and have identified a new substation that they believe could provide a more stable supply of electricity to the area. “We have identified a substation, but that is a matter we are still to engage Eskom on, and the technical experts.” ACDP councillor in Msunduzi, Rienus Niemand, said the financial impact on the Msunduzi Municipality could be crippling if the proposal was approved. “In Hilton there is a 90-100% collection rate and those people pay on time. I anticipate a fight (between the two municipalities) over this.” DA councillor in Msunduzi, Ross Strachan, said: “It’s a progressive step to ensure the people of Hilton can be free from the maladministration and service-delivery failure of the Msunduzi Municipality.” Msunduzi municipal manager Madoda Khathide said he was aware of the uMngeni Municipality’s intentions. He said while electricity contributed to more than half of their budget, they had not quantified how much the Hilton area contributed. Khathide said supplying electricity to Hilton was a difficult task. “The area going there is just forest and that is the main challenge (regarding) power outages,” he said. THE MERCURY