DURBAN - Dagga, petrol and a stolen vehicle were intercepted by the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) 121 South African Infantry Battalion during their fight against cross-border crimes between South Africa, Eswatini and Mozambique. Battalion operational communication officer Captain Letlhogonolo Mashego said a reaction team from Pongola Operational Base was activated to assist SAPS in Pongola with vehicle checkpoints at Mavalane N2 Road to intercept the vehicles. “The police were tipped off that the vehicles were transporting weapons. A white Ford Fiesta hatchback was named among those vehicles and was suspected to be stolen. The vehicle was circulated and found to be stolen in Mamelodi East Gauteng in January, 2021. No weapons were found in the vehicle. The police took the apprehended and the vehicle to Pongola police station,” he said. Mashego said while patrolling on foot along the borderline near Mshololo Temporary Base, military personnel spotted a man carrying a blue bag approaching from eSwatini. The man in question dropped the bag and ran back to Eswatini when he spotted military personnel. “Upon inspecting the bag, the soldiers found five rolls of dagga wrapped in brown tape. The dagga had a weight of 4.07kg at an estimated street value of R12 210,” Mashego said. He said then at Onverwacht border post in northern KwaZulu-Natal while conducting foot patrols along borderline near the Temporary Base, military personnel spotted a man carrying a green sack/bag approaching from eSwatini. When the man saw the soldiers, he attempted to run away with the sack/bag but he ended up dropping the bag and running back to Swaziland. “Members went and checked what was inside the bag and they found two rolls of dagga wrapped in brown tape and black plastic. The dagga weighed 10kgs at an estimated street value of R30 000. Military Police were called and took dagga to Pongola police station,” Mashego said. He said while conducting an observation along the borderline, SANDF soldiers saw a man crossing the fence from Swaziland into South Africa towards Mshololo Temporary Base. The man was stopped. “The 40-year-old South African man was carrying three 25 litres of petrol in his possession and was apprehended by the Military Police, who took him to Pongola police station,” Mashego said. In another incident, in Sivule, also in northern KZN, officers were conducting foot patrols along the borderline at about 1.8km east of Sivule Temporary Base. They spotted a man carrying a black plastic bag approaching from eSwatini. As soon the person saw military personnel, he tried to run away with the plastic bag but eventually dropped it and ran back to Swaziland. “Members went and checked what was inside the plastic bag and found two rolls of dagga wrapped in brown tape. The dagga weighed 2.03kg at an estimated street value of R6 090. Military Police were called and took the dagga to Pongola police station,” Mashego said. Daily News