DURBAN - The IFP has dismissed as cheap politics rumours that it is about to lose power to the NFP coalition in Nongoma Local Municipality. Speculation started doing the rounds after the NFP won two wards in the by-elections earlier this month.  Speaking to the Daily News on Monday, Nongoma mayor Mangaqa Mmncwango said the media were the victims of people who were spreading propaganda. These people were just wishing to take power from the IFP in Nongoma, he said, adding that they were creating unnecessary panic because they knew the truth – there was no way the IFP could lose Nongoma to anyone. “We forgive the media because it was being misled by people who have impossible wishes. The IFP coalition, which includes the National People’s Front is intact in Nongoma, so we are not bothered by media reports that we are about to lose power here. “As I am talking to you we are in Durban attending a Salga (South African Local Government Association) meeting so it's business as usual for us,” said Mncwango. During the inaugural council both the EFF and NAPF agreed to respect the wishes of Nongoma’s people who through their vote said they wanted the IFP to govern, he said. In the coalition NAPF leader Bheki Gumbi was appointed to chair the Mpac (Municipal Public Accounts Committee).  NFP secretary general Canaan Mdletshe said they are preparing to take over Nongoma, adding that negotiations with small parties were at an advanced stage. “We do not want to disclose anything for now, we will make a formal announcement once we have concluded our talks,” said Mdletshe. NAPF leader Gumbi said his party will make a formal announcement on Tuesday regarding the coalition in the municipality. In the by-elections held earlier this month, the NFP surprised many by taking ward 20 which was won by the IFP in the November 1 local government elections. It also retained ward 17 which was won by its late candidate who was killed a few days before the elections. In ward 17, NFP candidate Dumisani Qwabe was killed on October 26, just five days before the elections. Nevertheless, he won the election which resulted in a by-election.  The IFP’s Zamani Sibiya won ward 20 but died due to illness weeks after he was elected. In the 45-seat council, the IFP received 21 seats, the NFP 13, the ANC 8, and the EFF two, while the National People’s Front (NAPF) got one seat.  The NAPF was founded by former NFP member Bheki Gumbi in 2018. The NFP and ANC coalition equalled the IFP’s number of seats, but the EFF with its two seats and NAPF with its seat helped the IFP to take power.  Daily News