DURBAN - TEACHER unions have raised concerns about the rise in attacks on teachers after a South Coast principal and his wife were shot dead in their home. The principal of Maria Trost Junior Primary School and his wife were killed in the Ugu District Municipality on Friday. The incident comes after Thembisile Ngendane, deputy principal at Phomolong Secondary School in Tembisa, Gauteng, was shot dead in the driveway of the school last month. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed Friday’s incident. “It is alleged that on February 4 at 10.10pm, suspects entered the house through the window and shot a 45-yearold woman and a 55-year-old man in St Faiths. They sustained gunshot wounds to the body and were declared dead at the scene.” Gwala added that the motive for the killing was unknown and charges of murder were being investigated by St Faiths SAPS. Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu described the murders of the couple as an act of cowardice. “The teaching profession is a noble one that must be protected and respected at all times. As we sympathise with their loved ones, we equally pray to God to grant everyone the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.” Mshengu added that police and relevant security agencies must ensure that the culprits were apprehended through a careful and speedy investigation. Sibusiso Malinga, vice-president of National Teachers’ Union (Natu), said the union was concerned about the rise in attacks on educators. “No citizen should allow something like that to happen to an educator in South Africa. We, as Natu, want the law to take its course. The fact that this incident did not take place on school grounds does not take away from the fact that our educators are being attacked. One attack on an educator is too many. We can’t allow a situation where our teachers are being killed.” Malinga added that Natu called upon the police to ensure that the culprits were brought to book. “We pass our deepest condolences to the family of the principal, the Department of Education and the learners and staff of Maria Trost Junior Primary School. The loss of an educator is also a major loss to the entire country.” The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) said it was also concerned about the recent murders. “The killing of teachers is a scourge that has engulfed the teaching profession for reasons known to the killers only. As Sadtu KZN, we condemn this and call for the law-enforcement urgencies to work around the clock to arrest the killers and those who may have conspired to commit these murders. Sadtu sends its condolences to the families, the school and to the education fraternity,” said Nomarashiya Caluza, Sadtu KZN secretary. Thirona Moodley, provincial chief executive of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), said that a principal at any school was hard to replace. “We condemn the killing of the principal and his wife. It is very tragic. We pass our deepest condolences to the family of the principal.” Moodley added that Naptosa called on the Department of Education to appoint a suitable candidate to ensure that teaching and learning at Mariatrost Junior Primary School continued with the least amount of disruption. THE MERCURY