DURBAN - UMNGENI Municipality has warned of strict collection methods to recover close to R230 million owed to it by residents. The municipality said it had noted the collection tactics that had been employed by the Tshwane Municipality in Gauteng and threatened to employ the same methods. Both municipalities are run by the DA. Tshwane has netted millions of rand in collections following a disconnection drive of entities that owed the city. It has disconnected businesses and government buildings and universities that are said to be in debt with the municipality. The drive has also drawn criticism from those affected, some of whom claim they have been unfairly disconnected. UMngeni mayor Chris Pappas said residential property rates were the biggest debt for the municipality and electricity theft was the biggest loss in terms of services. He warned that the residents who could afford to pay would not be spared from disconnections. UMngeni said following a meeting of its finance committee, it was taking steps to implement a Revenue Enhancement and Recovery Strategy. “This month the uMngeni municipality recorded a R3.1m deficit mostly due to an increase in electricity theft. “This situation is not sustainable for the municipality and drastic action must be taken to ensure the financial viability of the municipality,” the municipality said. It said a number of recommendations were made, including cutting off those who could afford to pay but deliberately by-passed meters. Other strategies included increasing the indigent allocation from 50 units to 150 units and replacing old meters with smart meters. “In addition to high electricity theft, the municipality has R229m owed to it in outstanding rates,” it said. This ranges from debt that is 30 days to 150-plus days old. The municipality is encouraging residents and businesses to get their bills up to date. Property tax (rates) is mandatory in terms of the Municipal Property Rates Act, empowered by the Constitution, it said. “The municipality has certain rights and powers to recover debt that is owed to it. These mechanisms include cutting off electricity, attaching people’s properties and blacklisting property owners in terms of credit regulations. “The municipality has noted the actions taken by Tshwane and Joburg in recovering debt and will pursue the same strategy if debts are not paid. “The municipality is cognisant of the fact that some residents and businesses had fallen on hard times or may generally not be in a position to pay (partly or in full). “In this regard the municipality has a number of options available including payment plans, indigent applications and consideration for interest holidays. However, it is incumbent on debtors to approach the municipality for assistance,” the municipality said. Local government expert and former eThekwini City manager Michael Sutcliffe said that aggressive collection tactics should be the last resort. He said it was important for municipalities to have a credit-control policy in place that caters for the indigent and was implemented fairly. It was also important to keep politics out of the process. “Municipalities cannot just decide that you owe, there has to be a process.” THE MERCURY