DURBAN - The IFP has finally taken Mtubatuba Local Municipality from the ANC through a vote of no confidence. The special council meeting sat on Wednesday and the IFP leadership that was elected on the set aside January 12 was re-elected.  During the meeting, the IFP’s Mxolisi Mthethwa returned as mayor while the EFF’s Nothile Mthethwa and the IFP’s Sibongile Mthethwa also returned as deputy mayor and speaker respectively.  Local IFP leader Killer Mkhwanazi said everything went well and all councillors attended physically, while others joined virtually by Zoom.  Their election was challenged in court by Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Sipho Hlomuka and the former ANC leadership that was elected during the inaugural meeting on November 23.  Although the Pietermaritzburg High Court last week ruled that the meeting held on January 12 was illegal, the court also ordered ANC speaker Dipuo Ntuli to call a meeting where a motion of no confidence would take place before February 3, 2022.  Attempts to contact the ANC regional leadership were unsuccessful.  Provincial ANC spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela said he had not received any information on the meeting.  Cogta spokesperson Senzo Mzila said the MEC would receive a report before commenting on the meeting.  The election of the IFP leadership meant that the ANC’s Mbongeleni Gina and Dipuo Ntuli relinquished their positions as mayor and speaker respectively. The council had been without “properly” elected leadership since the local government elections in November as both parties had been in and out of court in a bid to control the municipality. The inaugural council meeting on November 23 was marred by drama, with the IFP walking out in protest over its two councillors who had gone out but were prevented from rejoining the meeting. With fewer seats, the ANC took advantage of the IFP’s absence and snatched control of the municipality but the IFP went to court, arguing that the meeting did not meet the quorum. In the 46-seat council, 25 councillors are needed to reach a quorum but on that day it was reportedly attended by 22 councillors. The IFP filed the matter on an urgent basis but its requests were turned down.  The party then filed for a motion of no confidence which the ANC speaker ignored. The IFP returned to court and this time around the judge agreed with it and ordered the speaker to call a meeting. Again there was some delay until January 12 when the council eventually met, but it was not without drama as the ANC boycotted the meeting, arguing that it was called illegally since the speaker, Dipuo Ntuli, had distanced herself from it. At that time Ntuli denied sending meeting invitations to councillors, saying they did not come from her office. Daily News