DURBAN - PORT Shepstone-born entrepreneur Nomonde Ntinga is poised to take the international fashion scene by storm when she showcases her fashion brand Monde le Grand at the New York Fashion Week in September. Her show will be held at the Sony Hall in Times Square. Ntinga, 34, who initially worked as a health and safety consultant in the construction industry, said she discovered her abilities with the needle after getting compliments for her own designs. “My mom is a seamstress. I would mimic her style a bit and when I went to seamstresses, I would take my mom’s style and incorporate it into my own and when I posted on social media, I gained attention and I would get requests to make something similar for others. “That is how it started and then I formalised it after that. I then progressed from making one dress to selling three dresses, to 10, to 20 and then 100,” she explained. The fashionista said that she had experienced her fair share of challenges. “My journey has been very difficult because my brand has been completely self-funded. I have never received any capital injection, any funding or any help from any of the institutions. “I would approach institutions for funding, but they would turn me down because obviously there are a lot of us, so it has been extremely difficult. With my business, cash flow means everything and that is the one thing we struggle with in terms of maintaining efficiency, quality, paying people on time and ensuring customer satisfaction,” she said. Ntinga said that she was inspired by her love for her children and mother. “My influence comes from my mom, but my inspiration really comes from my daughters. I have three children, two girls and one son, but I always look at my girls and want them to see their mom as someone they can learn from,” she said. Ntinga said she looked forward to exhibiting her line for an international audience but admits that she is overwhelmed. The opportunity to showcase her designs in New York came after she responded to an Instagram post about the fashion week. Ntinga describes her clothing as sentimental and said she believed that sets her apart from other brands. Ntinga added that her current project is very close to her heart. “My latest project is to produce scrubs for health-care professionals. “This is one project that I am really looking forward to because I honestly feel that in these times we are in, they are the most important people but they are overlooked. “But of course the main thing for me is to create a collection for the New York Fashion Week,” said Ntinga. She called on other up-and-coming designers to be authentic, expect rejection, collaborate where there was an opportunity, work very hard and to have faith in God. The New York Fashion Week is held in February and September every year. It is a semi-annual series of events where international fashion collections are exhibited for the public, buyers and the media.   THE MERCURY