DURBAN - THE internal investigation to determine whether the eThekwini Municipality’s head of health has the qualification required for the position is at an advanced stage, the city has said. The Mercury reported last year that allegations related to head of health Rosemary van Heerden’s qualifications were being probed by the city and the Office of the Public Protector. A whistle-blower filed a complaint with the public protector. Attempts to get comment from Van Heerden had been unsuccessful in the past as she referred all communication regarding the matter to the municipality. At least two sources in the municipality confirmed yesterday that Van Heerden remains in her post. Asked about progress in its investigation, the city said that the “internal” processes were at an advanced stage. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the matter was being dealt with. “We are a municipality that is committed to clean governance and we would like to assure the public we will address any allegation of wrongdoing head on and we will not sweep anything under the carpet,” said Mayisela. Van Heerden was appointed as the head of health in April last year, replacing Dr Nomkhosi Gxagxisa. At the centre of the probe, it seems, is the question of whether she has a Master’s in public health as required for the post. Before being promoted, she was the city’s deputy head in the unit. The public protector’s office said this week their investigation was ongoing. Opposition party councillors said the matter needed to be brought to finality. DA councillor Thabani Mthethwa said he did not understand why there was such a long drawn-out process because it would not be difficult to determine whether Van Heerden had the necessary qualification for the position. He said as councillors, they were not involved in the appointment of heads of departments and therefore had not been briefed about what was going on in the matter. “From what I understand there was a panel that interviewed and recommended her. “If there was a (failing on their part) there then we cannot blame her. It is the people who recommended her who should be held to account and be disciplined,” said Mthethwa. Patrick Pillay of the Democratic Liberal Congress said: “It is important that the head of health has the necessary qualifications and that the city manager should brief the council and the residents of the city as they have the right to know what is going on.” THE MERCURY