Durban – The SA Canegrowers Association welcomed the R225 million disbursement funding from South African Sugar Association (Sasa) and said it would provide vital support to small-scale growers. More than R225 million was paid to small-scale growers at the end of January 2022.  The SA Canegrowers association chairperson Andrew Russell said 21 000 small-scale growers derive their livelihoods from the industry, allowing them to contribute to the sustainability of the rural economy.  He said the Sasa transformation funding, of which the canegrowers contribute 64%, was allocated across two grower support programmes: R115.4m was allocated to intervention one, which provides grant funding for black growers delivering under 1 800 tons of cane and R50.47m was allocated to intervention two which provides grant funding to black growers delivering above 1 800 tons of cane. “The additional R60m agreed under the Masterplan was apportioned between all qualifying small-scale growers, that is, growers on communal land, and growers on freehold land delivering less than 1 800 tons of cane,” he said. The payments came at a good time for small-scale growers, a number of whom were affected by the July unrest, he added. He said over the past two years the growers had survived not only the widespread arson that characterised the July unrest, but also costs incurred to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, the continued implementation of the health promotion levy, declining milling capacity which means significant quantities of cane being carried over and an exponential increase in input costs such as fertiliser. Russell said: “This is an essential intervention to ensure the survival and success of small-scale growers as work continues under the Masterplan to revive the local industry and restructure it for future prosperity.” He said the growers were empowered to grow, create jobs and enrich local farming communities. “We will continue to work with the national government, our industry peers, and our value chain stakeholders to ensure the successful implementation of the Sugar Industry Value Chain Masterplan and the creation of opportunities in the sector so that we can vastly increase the one million livelihoods supported by the industry,” he said. THE MERCURY