Durban - Farm attacks and murders, trespassing and land invasions, service-delivery protests and strikes, vandalism of essential infrastructure and illegal hunting were among the issues highlighted by the KwaZulu-Natal Agricultural Union (Kwanalu) during the Rural Safety Summit held in the Free State last week. Kwanalu CEO Sandy la Marque said the safety of the country’s farmers, farmworkers and farm dwellers was brought to the fore at the summit. “It is essential we raise the significant contributions of our rural and agricultural community at top level discussions to ensure the viewpoints and needs of all interest groups are taken into account.” La Marque added that Kwanalu would continue to be a united voice for members in the rural and agricultural sector. Uys van der Westhuijzen, chairperson of Agri SA’s Centre of Excellence: Rural Safety said the shortage of manpower, and vehicles were major points of concern. “The government departments that are listed in the NRSS (National Rural Safety Strategy) must participate and fulfil their role as stated, which in some cases are not happening, causing a gap in our rural areas.” He added that Agri SA was of the view that the NRSS was a well-formulated document, but it required operationalisation at grass-roots level. “One of the most critical aspects is the deployment of reservists in the rural areas. Without them, there will be a constant shortage of manpower, inadequate response and reaction times and a definite negative impact on crime prevention.” At the summit, a 15-member national working committee was established to ensure safer rural and farming communities. National Commissioner of the SAPS, General Fannie Masemola, said it was crucial for the SAPS to forge relations and partnerships with all stakeholders to ensure crime was dealt with swiftly in rural areas. Minister of Police, General Bheki Cele, gave the newly elected committee seven days to develop an action plan that will be tabled before the Cabinet. Dr Siyabonga Madlala, South African Farmers’ Development Association chairperson said ensuring the safety of farmers was directly linked to the stability of food security in South Africa. “If farmers are not safe there will be a shortage of food in the country. As it is we are importing foods we should be producing in South Africa. If there is a shortage of food it will be catastrophic for the economy of South Africa.” THE MERCURY