Durban — Condolences continue to pour in for Deputy Minister of Transport Sindisiwe Chikunga who lost six family members in one crash in KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend. KZN police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said Ladysmith police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. Gwala said it was alleged that on Sunday night, at 11.50pm, there was an accident on the N11, Newcastle Road where four vehicles were involved in a collision. “Six people died at the scene and one was taken to hospital for medical attention.” On Wednesday, the national parliamentary portfolio committee on transport chairperson Mosebenzi Zwane and the committee sent condolences to the Chikunga family and friends. “There are no words (that) will ever be enough to comfort the family when about six of its members die at the same time. Our minds and hearts are with the family during this time of mourning,” Zwane said. Parliament’s presiding officers led by National Assembly Speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and National Council of Provinces chairperson Amos Masondo also sent their condolences. The presiding officers said the tragic loss of this magnitude was inconceivable, and none can begin to imagine or comprehend the heartbreak and devastation Chikunga and the rest of the affected family members were enduring at this time. They extended Parliament’s heartfelt condolences and wishes of strength to the Chikunga family, the family of the son’s in-laws and extended families on this tragic loss. The IFP, on behalf of the IFP founder and president emeritus, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, the IFP president and leader of the official opposition in the KZN legislature, Velenkosini Hlabisa and IFP MPs extended their deepest condolences. “The deputy minister and her family are in our thoughts, and we pray for comfort in this difficult time. May her son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren rest in perfect peace,” said IFP member on transport Khethamabala Sithole. He said the IFP once again wished to highlight the urgent need for ongoing safety campaigns on our national roads and calls for such to be rolled out, particularly during peak times, such as school holidays and the festive season. We further call for traffic officials to be visible, and to conduct regular roadblocks and spot-checks to ensure that road users and their vehicles are fit to drive. “Enforcing speed limits is also essential, and penalties must be large enough to deter road users that might be tempted to drive recklessly, at high speeds. The rules of the road are not there to restrict the rights of road users, but rather, to protect and safeguard lives,” Sithole added. The national parliamentary portfolio committee on women, youth and persons with disabilities chairperson Nonhlanhla Ncube-Ndaba and the committee sent condolences to the Chikunga family, their friends and the Ministry of Transport. “Death is the severest painful affair. The committee joins the Chikunga family in trusting that, by the grace of the Almighty, they will pass through this journey,” Ncube-Ndaba said. “May their souls rest in eternal peace.” Daily News