Durban - Another KwaZulu-Natal traditional leader has been killed, raising safety concerns among a range of stakeholders. Ibambabukhos (interim leader) Samson Dlani Buthelezi was gunned down on Wednesday morning at his home in Nquthu (near Dundee) by unknown gunmen and died on the scene. Buthelezi was designated as Iso lesilo in the Jama Traditional Community in Nquthu and, according to Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Sipho Hlomuka, served with diligence and commitment. His killing comes after the South African Local Government Association (SALGA) called on the government to provide protection for traditional leaders at a local government indaba in Durban on Tuesday. Hlomuka expressed shock at the traditional leader’s killing, saying it had left a gaping hole within the institution of traditional leadership in the province. “We wish to convey our condolences to His Majesty the King and Indlunkulu for the loss of a faithful steward, who conducted the affairs of isizwe (nation) in a dignified manner,” said Hlomuka. He expressed the government’s concern over the continued killing of traditional leaders, and pleaded for community assistance in dealing with the scourge. “We continue to call upon our communities to expose the criminals who try to destabilise the institution of traditional leadership within our province. These criminals must not have a place to rest and must be exposed so that they can face the full might of the law,” said Hlomuka. The MEC insisted that without the support of communities, law enforcement would not be able to catch the criminals. “We, therefore, plead with our communities to come forward with information that will assist law enforcement agencies to apprehend the cowards that are responsible for this act,” Hlomuka said. According to Hlomuka, the department had assigned senior officials to provide support to the family during this period. The killing of traditional leaders in KZN in recent times has led to calls for the government to step up safety measures, on what is regarded as a crucial institution in the province. THE MERCURY