After two years of Africa’s greatest horse racing event being held behind closed doors owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, attendees at the Hollywoodbets Durban July displayed unique and bold fashion choices – and many had dressed faithfully to the theme “Show Me the Honey”.   The new race title sponsors Hollywoodbets helped deliver a programme of events that saw plenty of fashion, music and entertainment. Among those who paraded their race-day fashion was Pietermaritizburg designer Lindo Mathebula, 37, and her model for the day, Nozipo Zuma.  African culture was the inspiration behind their colourful outfits. Mathebula said: “I chose to use the African culture as my inspiration, with beads and fabrics that are in line with the culture. I’ve been part of the Durban July fashion for many years, and I was so happy to be back after everything we’ve had to face with Covid. I felt great because it was a big platform and helped businesses which have been greatly impacted during the pandemic, especially my business, which was hit hard.” Models Denelle Ince, 26, from Pietermaritzburg and Joshua Jacobs, 23, from Durban, were dressed in Lordes by Leona Adams and replicated the colours of a bee.  “The inspiration behind our outfits was royalty, especially the concept of the queen bee and her king. We’ve been modelling at the Durban July since 2015 and were so excited to come back,” said Ince. Mamantsoe Mokoatle, 31, from Verulam, was seen with a large headpiece embellished with leaves, flowers and makeshift birds. She designed her royal blue dress that certainly stood out in the crowd.  “I love modelling my own designs and I love nature, so I was very excited to be back at the Durban July after the pandemic,” she said. Tammy Reed, 37, from Pietermaritzburg, was dressed by Martin Steenkamp, with the idea of creating a Queen B.  Steenkamp said, “The idea behind the outfit was every beehive having a queen. It was such an amazing opportunity to showcase our creativity and allow our imagination to flow.”  Reed added that it was a great and exciting feeling to have been back at the race-day event. SUNDAY TRIBUNE