Durban - Impoverished communities in KwaZulu-Natal have been hit by a series of unexpected setbacks, including the Covid-19 pandemic, civil unrest and most recently the devastating floods that left people unemployed and homeless. To lend a hand, Link Africa, an independent fibre network operator, visited Inanda and Molweni to donate food parcels to community members who stay in shelters and those who rely on soup kitchens for their next meal. National head of stakeholder relations at Link Africa, Mfanafuthi Khoza, said the eThekwini Municipality had many socio-economic issues that were worsened by the unrest and the floods. “We started the company in the eThekwini Municipality, we couldn’t have gone anywhere else to offer our help, and we have people that work for the company who live in these communities,” he said. The community of Inanda congregated at the Siziba Sensindiso in Christ NPO, who were the recipients of 30 food parcels to contribute to their feeding scheme programme. Founder of the project Pastor Bheki Hlatshwayo said the organisation was formed in 2014 to bridge the gap between the people and the church by taking the church to the people. “Religion has a huge part to play in bringing communities together and alleviate poverty.” Hlatshwayo said the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the extent of the suffering of the people and many people had approached them for assistance. “We promote independence and encourage people to use what they have in order to make a living, even those with disabilities,” he said. Director of the organisation Thulile Hlatshwayo said the disasters and the pandemic showed her that the spirit of ubuntu was alive in her community. “Even though we are a Christian-based organisation, we have had meaningful contributions come from people who belong to different faiths.” Thokozani Zuma, who lives with blindness and is a representative of people living with disability in the community, said she was grateful to the organisation as it opened many doors of opportunity for them. “We are thankful to Siziba Sensindiso as well as the business people who always offer a helping hand.” From Inanda, the truckload of goods travelled to a community hall in Molweni where flood victims were being housed. In the ward, 25 people had died and seven were still missing. Molweni councillor Nonsikelelo Msomi said she was grateful for the generous donation made by Link Africa, adding that the donations would be divided among the six shelters in the community. “Most of the areas of Molweni don’t have water, so we are so grateful to be receiving these parcels for the community as it means people in the shelters will have a meal for the next week.” THE MERCURY