DURBAN - The KwaDukuza Municipality has urged its customers to properly capture their information when making electronic payments, following numerous complaints about unallocated payments which risk the customer falling into arrears and having their electricity being disconnected. The municipality issued a notice recently noting that a growing number of electronic payments with incorrect reference numbers had led to a number of payments being unallocated. Municipal spokesperson Sipho Mkhize said the issue was that customers were not putting in reference numbers or were using the wrong reference numbers when they made payments. Customers need to use their account numbers as the reference for payments. He said this led to the payments not being captured to reflect on customers’ account. He said this led to customers becoming irate with municipal staff. “Patrons fight with municipal staff and say all sorts of things including that they are incompetent etc.” In the notice, the municipality said, it was experiencing a high volume of unallocated customer payments due to customers not using the correct reference number when making the electronic payments. “Customers are urged to use their correct account number, if not used or captured incorrectly, municipalities may not be able to allocate the payment. This could lead to accounts falling into arrears and possibly the disconnection of the customer electricity supply,” it said. It said the account number is found on the top left corner of the customers statement below the municipality’s logo. It urged the residents whose payments are not reflecting, to contact the municipality. Customers can email their proof of payment to RamesgR@kwadukuza.gov.za The municipality is facing a challenge with its supply of electricity. The DA recently revealed that it is losing millions of rand as a result of illegal connections and theft. The DA said it had written to the executive director of the Electrical Engineering unit, Sibusiso Jali, to request urgent action against brazen illegal electricity connections. This, it said, as the municipality recorded a staggering R214 million in energy loss for the 2021/22 financial year. The municipality’s inability to deal with illegal connections is one of the compounding factors for the energy loss. This has an impact on the level of service delivery to ratepayers and the financial viability of the municipality, the party said. THE MERCURY