Durban - According to lobby group Afrikanerbond, Police Minister Bheki Cele is past his expiry date and his recent anger outburst and tirade showed that he is no longer fit for office.  It asked how much longer the Police Minister could be tolerated. The Afrikanerbond, previously known as the Broederbond – then a secret society for white, Christian, Afrikaans males – issued a statement on Wednesday following Cele’s exchange with Action Society’s director, Ian Cameron, during a community meeting in Gugulethu, Western Cape. “We once again took note of the tirade by Police Minister Bheki Cele against a member of the public. This is in line with his similar outburst of anger at another public safety rally in Normandien, KwaZulu-Natal, in September 2020, where he also reacted with anger, whipping up emotions and inciting communities against each other. “While preaching about human rights and then reacting in a fit of rage, he and his police officials reflect the stereotypical caricature of a dictator which is unacceptable in a constitutional democracy.  “Crime is a common problem in all communities and people are frustrated with how it is dealt with, or not dealt with. If the minister was serious about consulting with people to find solutions, he would listen to everyone in the Western Cape and involve all spheres of government.  “Clearly, this is not happening, for political reasons,” read Afrikanerbond statement. The organisation added: “The minister is far past his expiry date and doesn’t honour the position in which he serves. Similarly, his Struggle past has long since ceased to be relevant and doesn’t afford him any special status.  “It is now current results that count, and not his past. The minister was pushed into a corner in the meeting when the flawed actions of the police were pointed out to him, and he evidently tried to divert attention by the outburst.” Cele has come under fire for telling Cameron to “shut up and get out” and had Cameron forcibly removed during the heated meeting. Cameron had criticised Cele for not doing enough to fight crime in the Western Cape. The minister said on Wednesday, through his spokesperson Lirandzu Themba, that he wouldn’t apologise for the manner in which he behaved, and accused Cameron of being disruptive during the meeting. Action Society has since indicated that it would ask Parliament and the Public Protector to probe Cele for his outburst during the engagement. The Land Party has also called for Cele to apologise and step down from his position. “Cele is a disaster and a failure to our police system. Therefore, it is time for the minister to take responsibility and stop using his Struggle credentials and his personal experience during apartheid,” read the Land Party statement. Daily News