Durban — Tripartite Alliance partners, South African Communist Party (SACP) and Congress of South African Trade Union (Cosatu) as well affiliate South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu), have blamed the ANC for continued political killings in KwaZulu-Natal. After its bilateral meeting, SACP and Cosatu, joined by Samwu, concluded that the outgoing ANC leadership had failed to deal decisively with the killings. In their joint media statement issued on Wednesday, the partners said the murders emanating from political violence weighed heavily in KwaZulu-Natal, more than in any other parts of South Africa. They firmly believe that, as the alliance, they should have been briefed about the progress in dealing with political related violence. The alliance further said that prior to the November 2021 local government elections, the province witnessed an increase in the number of politically related killings. The Alliance remain extremely worried about the failure of the ANC-led government in KZN and the ANC leadership, in particular, to deal decisively with political violence. “The outgoing leadership should take the blame for failing to ensure multi-party committee meetings involving leaders of political parties in order to ensure peace and stability in the province,” read the statement. Taking a swipe at the outgoing ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala for his reported public fist fight with former Ukhozi FM personality Ngizwe Mchunu, the alliance appeared to be blaming Zikalala for the drama. The alliance added that such skirmishes involving an elected leader, especially the first citizen of the province, projected a terrible image of the province to the world. The alliance stated that good conduct of leaders is important in mobilising communities behind a goal of building a stable province with leaders and communities all pulling in the same direction. “We expect delegates to the conference to elect leaders who will project a good image of this province moving forward. Moral regeneration and mobilisation of civil society, in the form of religious and traditional teachings, which are all intended to create a better human being and a humane society, must be intensified,” the statement read. Daily News