Durban - KwaZulu-Natal Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Sipho Hlomuka has called for improvements in uThukela District Municipality, saying he was concerned that the district was always in the forefront whenever poor-performing municipalities were mentioned.  Hlomuka was speaking at a sector stakeholder engagement, where he addressed amakhosi, councillors and social partners, pleading for them to come together to help the district perform better.  The engagement was held to create unity and solid partnerships among all stakeholders, despite the differences they might have with each other, in order to improve service delivery in the district. Hlomuka said it was embarrassing to see the district being mentioned among poor-functioning municipalities, given the fact that the district was under new management. “...things are supposed to be running smoothly and change is supposed to be visible,” Hlomuka said.  He encouraged all attendees to be unified, and to work together and engage with each other to improve the district. “Charity must begin at home; let’s create a conducive environment for our people so they can also get hold of opportunities regardless of the political parties they believe in or sectors they are from. In everything, we want all the sectors and the people to hold hands and work together for the district to stop being mentioned among the poor-functioning municipalities,” said Hlomuka. He encouraged councillors, mayors and deputy mayors to work hand in hand with the community, izinduna and amakhosi, as they should not be in competition but should together serve the people. Nothile Shabalala from Okhahlamba Local Municipality said the engagement was “much needed” as they faced a lot of issues, and being given a platform to raise them gave them hope that solutions would be found and the district would move forward. “We are honoured by this opportunity; it shows Cogta cares about us -  thank you for encouraging unity. I think all the municipalities and districts need to know that when it comes to delivering services for the community, we must come together and leave all the competition aside. I really hope moving forward we are going to do better and work together,” she said. Chairperson of the uThukela Traditional Authority, Inkosi Ngqayizivele Sithole, thanked the government for the intervention, also calling it “much needed”. “This opportunity of putting our heads together was needed; we need solutions on what we can do to make the district come alive. Even in schools, we need implementations on how we can produce good results. I was a laughing stock when one school produced 16% in their results; I don’t want it to happen again,” Sithole said. Daily News