Durban - With a week left to the much-anticipated KwaZulu-Natal ANC elective conference, another MEC has emerged as a top-five candidate. KZN Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) MEC Bongi Sithole-Moloi has been nominated to serve in the top five provincial hierarchy. Sithole-Moloi, who is the wife of the former chairperson of Inkosi Bhambatha region, Lucky Moloi, is wanted by branches in Mzala Nxumalo for the deputy secretary position in the coming conference. The Inkosi Bhambatha region comprises Greytown, Msinga, Nquthu and Dundee towns. Thami Magubane, ward 23 branch chairperson in Mzala Nxumalo, said his branch has nominated Sithole-Moloi for the deputy secretary position and the current Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane for the deputy chairperson position. Magubane said his branch and others in the region felt that it was time to give women a chance to lead the ANC after being ignored for a long time despite their hard work and seniority in the party ranks. “My branch has nominated Simelane and Sithole-Moloi and we want them to serve in the top five. These two women leaders are now senior in the party and have proved themselves in the party and in government that they can perform, so it is high time we entrust them with taking the province forward,” said Magubane. With regard to the other three remaining positions, he said his branch delegates will nominate them from the floor. Simelane hails from the Mzala Nxumalo region and has led as its regional chairperson before being elected to the provincial executive committee and subsequently as MEC. She also served as the provincial spokesperson of the ANC.  Simelane refused to comment on her nomination. Sithole-Moloi, a former Umkhonto we Sizwe soldier and private secretary to the late fiery ANC stalwart Harry Gwala, also served as the first female youngest regional secretary of the ANC while it was still known as the Natal Midlands for six terms. Before being moved to the legislature she was uMgungundlovu District Municipality mayor. She also served as Arts and Culture MEC before taking over as DARD MEC.  Sithole-Moloi had not commented at the time of the publication. Daily News