Durban - ANC KwaZulu-Natal treasurer Nomusa Dube-Ncube says the results of last year’s local government elections should serve as a warning signal to the party faithful about the dangers of disunity. Dube-Ncube warned about a real chance of the ANC getting unseated from power if the current divisions and factional battles were not addressed. She issued the warning to party members in KwaXimba branch on Friday at the handing over of a house. Dube-Ncube is set to challenge Sihle Zikalala for the position of ANC provincial chairperson in two weeks. She said: “What we saw last year should not be allowed to happen again. Let us not forget that eThekwini and other municipalities as well as the province were not handed to us on a silver platter but we had to forge working arrangements with other parties before eventually we won outright. We should always remember where we come from.” Dube-Ncube noted the number of party members who had not campaigned in last year’s election, leading to a low voter turn-out which helped other parties topple the ANC in some municipalities. She called on party members and activists to put their differences aside and work at ensuring that people got services through an ANC-led government. “We want the ANC to be back in control throughout KwaZulu-Natal so that we can carry on with the mandate of serving the people of this province by building them houses, providing water and electricity and creating work.” Dube-Ncube praised the unity demonstrated by the KwaXimba branch, expressing a wish that such a spirit would spread throughout the province. “I am heartened by the way the SACP is working closely with the ANC in this branch; it pains me when in some instances some branches demonstrate a lack of appreciation of the importance of the alliance as part of the support to the ANC because without it (the alliance) we will never succeed as the ANC,” DubeNcube stressed. She also warned against pettiness among members and activists, calling for focus on the goal of seeing the ANC functioning properly and in control. She acknowledged the role of women in the past, expressing her belief that if more women were in leadership roles, more change would be visible in various communities in the province. Dube-Ncube said the government was looking at ways in which women could be empowered economically, especially at a time of economic difficulties. She added that there was potential for economic opportunities if women organised themselves and approached the government for further assistance. According to Dube-Ncube, there were opportunities within the education and health sectors, but there was a need for women to be initiative-driven. “In many of our communities we should be designing and producing our own school uniforms; such opportunities exist and they have the potential of uplifting families and communities.” Branch members who were present responded favourably to Dube-Ncube. KwaXimba is one of the ANC’s biggest branches, boasting a membership of thousands of members, and is regarded as one of the influential branches in determining the outcome of regional and provincial conferences. THE MERCURY