Durban – A new app designed to make the passenger airport experience easier and seamless was unveiled by Airports Company South Africa (Acsa). The app was launched on July 1  2022. Mthoko Mncwabe, Acsa chief information officer said the aim of the app was to enhance the customer experience for passengers as they move through the company’s airports or seek travel-related information. “The app has considered the needs of our customers when getting ready to take a flight. Passengers can get all the information they require when travelling at the touch of a button,” said Mncwabe. According to Acsa, the registration was easy and simple. “We have taken into consideration the Protection of Personal Information Act (Popia) and data privacy, and passengers can also unlock their ultimate airport guide by using their email address, google details, Facebook or Twitter accounts to sign up,” said Acsa. Once registration was completed, users would simply need their email address and password to sign into the app when they need to transact, it said. “Customers can view and search for flights by airport or use advanced search to get flight information for future flights. This functionality also allows passengers to subscribe to a flight to receive notifications on their flight status,” said the airports company. Mncwabe said travellers can also pre-book parking at OR Tambo International Airport (and pay for parking tickets with the app. “Save your vehicle and card details for easy access and payment for parking. This functionality also allows you to save your vehicle location, so you never get lost in any airport again,” he added. Other features on the app include the ability to navigate through airports. Mncwabe said the Airport Guide featured by the app allowed passengers to search and navigate to a point of interest inside the airport. “A passenger will not waste time asking where to find their favourite restaurant when they have the Acsa app.  Furthermore, all airport facilities and services are listed for ease of reference,” he said. Mncwabe said the app’s health and safety feature prioritised the health and safety of passengers.   “It provides access to the clinic, current Covid-19 protocols in Acsa’s airports and its medical call-out procedures for all emergencies. Covid-testing service providers are also listed for your convenience. We also allow travellers to book and store the results of their PCR test when travelling through Oliver Tambo Airport,” he said. THE MERCURY