Durban — Community members, as well as friends and family picketing outside the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court emphasised that the man charged with the murders of Sobantu grandmother, daughter, and granddaughter was not from the area. Njabulo Ndlovu, 29, alleged to have killed a grandmother Zanele Ndlela, 65, her daughter Simangele Ndlela, 46, and 8-year-old granddaughter Zenande Ndlela appeared briefly in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Njabulo Ndlovu,29, alleged to have killed a grandmother  Zanele Ndlela,65, her daughter Simangele Ndlela,46, and 8-year-old granddaughter Zenande Ndlela at the PMB High Court @DailyNewsSA pic.twitter.com/k89GphkiRQ Sibusiso Oscar Dlomo, Zanele Ndlela’s nephew said: “Please can the media stop reporting like Sobantu is a hive for criminals, rapists and murderers; he is not from Sobantu. I won’t lie if we had got our hands on him he would not get out, but now he is in the hands of the law, we will let the law run its course. I also thank MEC Khoza for the support.” Dlomo addressed community members outside court in isiZulu: “The court agreed to a request made by the investigating officers that the accused be kept in custody at Mountain Rise. The police explained why this was so and we hear and accept their explanation. The police investigating this matter, we trust them from the way they have been handling it. They explained that doing this would be in the best interest of the case, and we must not let our emotions get in the way and ruin the investigation. We respect the law, we are angry but we will give the law a chance to run its course.” Njabulo Ndlovu,29, alleged to have killed a grandmother  Zanele Ndlela,65, her daughter Simangele Ndlela,46, and 8-year-old granddaughter Zenande Ndlela at the PMB High Court #sobantutripplemurder @DailyNewsSA pic.twitter.com/UtprHd9IVQ MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza applauded the community for coming out to court, adding that such unity would also deter others with like minds. “He must know that the community of Sobantu is not one for you to get there and do as you please. You coming out here shows that you will do the same for others. Let’s go out and form street committees so that we know how each neighbour made it through the night. Let’s look after each other, the criminals are out there wanting to outnumber us.” Khoza also thanked the community members for not taking the law into their own hands. “We want to see him rot in jail.” Daily News