Durban — The iSimangaliso Wetland Park authority has alerted communities and visitors about the elephants roaming the western shores of the park, especially around Dukuduku Gate in St Lucia. iSimangaliso Wetland Park spokesperson Bheki Manzini said elephants exhibiting unusual behaviour have been spotted grazing on the western shores section of Lake St Lucia. “The park is a home to untamed wild animals that can cause damage to property, inflict injury and even cause death to human beings. You are therefore strongly urged and advised to be alert when walking or driving around the park, to stay inside your vehicles except in designated areas and stay away from animals,” Manzini said. “Safety of communities neighbouring the park is our number one priority, therefore iSimangaliso urges adults to keep an eye on children as they visit the park during these school holidays to ensure their safety whilst enjoying the magnificent park fauna and flora experiences. We would like to draw your attention to the following safety measures to ensure that communities and visitors are safe, and the park visit becomes a memorable one.” Manzini said the park has about 110 elephants on the eastern and western shores sections of the park. “Elephants are naturally a huge drawcard for tourists; however, we urge visitors to exercise caution when encountering elephants.” “Please be advised that anywhere in the iSimangaliso Wetland Park, sitting on the back of an open vehicle or in a vehicle with no roof and/or sides is not permitted due to the dangers posed by wild animals and in particular elephants. A reasonable distance should be maintained from elephants (50m) and guests may not get out of the vehicles or lean out of windows for any reason, including the taking of photographs,” Manzini said. He referred visitors and residents to Regulations 15 and 16: National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act 57 Of 2003 (Gazette No. 26025, Notice No.181, 1 November 2004) Regulations for the Proper Administration of Special Nature Reserves, National Parks and World Heritage Sites (Government Notice R1061, Government Gazette 28181, 28 October 2005), as amended and the criminal sanctions concerning a breach of the said regulations. “Should you encounter any negative behaviour or misbehaviour by other park users around the park, please record vehicle details, take photographs and contact the iSimangaliso emergency phone 082 797 7944. iSimangaliso has posted safety notices about this matter to keep communities and visitors aware of these elephants,” Manzini said. The warning comes a few weeks after a bull elephant attacking a car with terrified occupants inside was described as the equivalent of a rugby line-out. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife said the occupants of a white Ford Figo had a close encounter with a bull elephant along the Hilltop Resort Memorial Gate road in the Hluhluwe-Imfolozi Park. Daily News