DURBAN - The IFP has described former treasurer Alex Hamilton as a selfless leader who worked tirelessly towards community development and demonstrated love for humanity. The  former Member of Provincial Legislature (MPL) died this past weekend in what the IFP described as tragic circumstances.  Party treasurer Narend Singh told The Mercury on Monday that he had died as a result of a fire at his home in the early hours of Saturday morning.  He said Hamilton’s passing had shocked and deeply saddened his IFP family, especially founding president Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who knew the former MPL for several decades. Hamilton served in several committees at the legislature including the Standing Committee on Public Accounts between 1994 until  2010 when he retired from public office in order to focus on his business activities. “Mr Hamilton epitomised the spirit of ubuntu, a man who cared deeply and who was always willing and able to help those in need and also contributed greatly and selflessly to community aid projects,” Singh said in describing the former MPL. Hamilton was well known in business circles through his  business interests, including Alexander Hamilton Construction, Windermere Holdings, and a trucking and logistics company Alex Carriers.  Hamilton formally joined the IFP in 1992 and had continued to contribute to the party’s development even after retiring from public office.  Singh said the former MPL’s  knowledge and expertise would be deeply missed by the IFP’s rank and file. “As the IFP we extend our condolences to his daughter Zo and his extended family. We also ask for privacy for his family at this time as they come to grips with Alex’s passing,”  Singh concluded. He indicated that interested parties, including the media would be informed in the coming week of funeral arrangements.   MOST READ: – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage –Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY