Durban - Gingindlovu SAPS are investigating a case of culpable homicide after four people were killed in a two-vehicle crash on the N2 on Monday morning. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said at 6.30am, two vehicles were involved in a collision on the N2 freeway before Matigulu bridge. “Four people were declared dead at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated,” Gwala said. IPSS Medical Rescue spokesperson Dylan Meyrick said IPSS Medical Rescue together with advanced life paramedics attended to a multi-vehicle high impact head-on collision. “Unfortunately, all four of the occupants involved were declared deceased on scene by paramedics on arrival,” Meyrick said. He said traffic was badly affected in both directions. Commenting on IPSS Medical Rescue’s Facebook post about the crash, Fundile Cebekhulu said: “Yaphela khona lapho ingane kamama kwaze kwabuhlungu. Thixo ibuhlungu intando yakho!!” Translated, she said: “And that was the end of my mother’s child, it hurts so much. Lord, your will hurts.” Talon Pillay said: “Drove past that scene, the roads were absolutely drenched, especially on that hill it was like a river on the N2, and I wondered what speed they must've been doing to end up like that. It was a horrific mess!!” IPSS Medical Response also responded to two other fatal crashes on the north coast of KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend. On Sunday, paramedics responded to the R102 Newark for a crash involving a light motor vehicle and a small bus, leaving one dead and multiple people injured. Meyrick said 13 patients sustained minor to serious injuries. IPSS Medical advanced life support stabilised one patient with serious injuries on scene who was then transported by IPSS. Two patients with moderate injuries were treated and transported by IPSS Medical and Alert EMS. A further 10 patients were transported by EMRS and privately to nearby facilities. “Unfortunately, the driver of the light motor vehicle sustained fatal injuries and was extricated from the vehicle,” Meyrick said. On Saturday, IPSS Medical Rescue attended the scene of a crash on the N2 between the Tugela River and Zinkwazi, where the driver of a single vehicle lost control and collided with the barriers. “Unfortunately, one of the occupants was ejected from the vehicle and sustained fatal injuries, and was declared on scene. A second patient sustained moderate injuries and was transported by IPSS Medical to hospital,” Meyrick said. Daily News