Durban – Two security guards were injured after they were shot while on duty in the Jacob’s area in Durban on Sunday. This brings the number of guards shot to at least eight this month alone. According to ALS Paramedics who responded to calls for medical assistance in the early hours of this morning they arrived at the business premises in Richard Carte Road to find one guard had sustained multiple gunshot wounds to his body, while the second guard was shot in the lower leg. Spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said paramedics received multiple calls for assistance just after 3am on Sunday. On arrival, paramedics found unknown persons had shot two guards believed to be in their late forties. “Advanced life-support paramedics from ALS Paramedics, Netcare911 and EMRS worked together to stabilise the wounded at the crime scene.  “Due to the severity of the one guard’s injuries, the Netcare911 aeromedical helicopter was called out to rapidly transport the critically injured guard to a specialist facility. The second guard was transported to hospital by ALS Paramedics,” Jamieson said. At this stage the events leading up to the shooting incident are unknown, but police were in attendance and are investigating the crime. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said charges of attempted business robbery and attempted murder are being investigated by the Wentworth SAPS. “It is alleged that today at 2.30am, unknown suspects entered the business premises and opened fire at the security guards aged 48 and 50. The guards sustained multiple gunshot wounds to their bodies and were taken to hospital for medical treatment. The matter is still under investigation.” This month along, two other guards were shot in Shallcross, three in KwaMashu and one in Hammarsdale. Early this month, two security guards were shot dead within hours of each other in separate attacks in Shallcross. Last week in KwaMashu, two guards employed by Imvula Quality Protection were guarding eThekwini Metro electricians carrying out repairs to a transformer on a road, were shot and killed. Daily News