Durban - The English adage “the world is your oyster” epitomises the life of 31-year-old medical doctor and farmer Dr Nhlakanipho Dlamini, who is set to jet off to the United Arab Emirates tomorrow to represent South Africa at the upcoming Arab Youth International Model United Nations conference. Dlamini leaves for Dubai on Wednesday to head to the conference, to be held from May 27 to May 30, where he will engage in dialogue on creating change and building peace worldwide and debate on the rising global issues and to draft resolutions in response to the problems.  Dlamini, born in Nkandla but raised in Nquthu, graduated from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in 2015 with a Bachelor of Physical Science Honours degree before doing his community service at Eshowe Hospital. He qualified as an independent practitioner in 2016 and boasts the experience of working for several medical institutions, including private hospitals such as Westville Hospital, Lenmed La Verna Hospital, Garden Clinic and Mediclinic PMB.  Challenges that often come with hailing from the rural northern parts of KZN have not stopped Dlamini from pursuing his dreams, and he now lives his dream in the very same rural community he was raised in. Dlamini lost both his parents at just 10 years of age, in 2001. He was raised by his grandparents, who ensured that he focused on his education despite the limitations that come with living in a rural area located hundreds of kilometres away from the major cities and opportunities. With his independent practitioner qualification in hand, in 2017 Dlamini co-founded Nquthu Medical Centre with other local doctors, with the centre now providing special services including dentistry, physiotherapy and optometry to the Nquthu community. Dlamini’s take on youth getting higher education is different from the run-of-the-mill, almost rehearsed, encouragement often heard from those who have graduated from institutions of higher learning. “The most important thing for our youth, particularly in rural areas, is access to information as some don’t fully understand higher education. Where we are from, people just know that when you are done with matric you must go to the cities to study further. “You find that we also have FET colleges now here in the rural areas, but people still leave for the cities because of a lack of knowledge from parents who think their children must be in the city to achieve success,” Dlamini said. He adds that the youth need to get access to information and understand that what is needed in modern-day South Africa are skills-based qualifications that can also help them establish their own businesses instead of solely relying on getting employment. Being raised in a farming family would later inspire Dlamini, who has since added to his mantelpiece the title of being the founder and director of Mnini Bordery, the only farming entity that breeds Bonsmara cows in and around the Nquthu area. Dlamini says that his farm has also caught the eye of President Cyril Ramaphosa, who is also a Bonsmara and Ankole breeder. “Living with my elderly grandparents helped us as they taught us to plough our fields and grow our own food, and we became a family that farms. I ended up developing a love for farming, so from a young age it was education and farming for me because that was something entrenched in my family’s way of living. “Meeting the president was very overwhelming, but he told me that I’m doing a great job considering my age. Growing up we didn't do livestock farming as a family, but after my studies when I came back to Nquthu I ventured into livestock farming as well,” Dlamini said. His herd has more than 30 breeding cows and he aims to improve the production of his cows while he also provides employment to eight permanent staff and more than 40 seasonal workers. Despite the onset of Covid-19 in 2020, Dlamini’s passion for farming saw him establish another farming entity, Inkukhu KaMakoti, which is the largest chicken farm in his home town. He employs the other youth from his community. He says that this farm has created 19 permanent jobs and more than 40 seasonal workers. His agricultural endeavours saw him win the Best Entrepreneur in Agriculture at the 2021 KZN Youth Business Awards that were sponsored by the African Trade Fair, which opened the doors for his international recognition. After winning the award, Dlamini was selected to be a part of the African Union Youth Commission programme which included business mentorship. He was then selected to represent South Africa at an Arab Youth International Model United Nations conference held in Turkey in March this year and is now set to attend a similar conference in Dubai from May 27 to May 30. There Dlamini and other youth from more than 100 countries will debate the rising global issues, draft resolutions in response to the problems, and collaborate with others who are equally motivated and passionate in creating the change. Dlamini says he will also be looking at establishing business partnerships while also making efforts to attract and encourage the international community to visit South Africa. SUNDAY TRIBUNE