Durban - The Provincial Drug and Firearm unit has pounced on three suspected drug dealers in the KwaZulu-Natal coastal resort town of Margate, south of Durban. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said that officers from the unit were still out in their numbers cleaning the province by putting the drug dealers behind bars where they belong. Gwala said that on Thursday morning, police arrested three suspects aged between 29 and 42 for possession and dealing drugs. They were arrested on Palm Road, extension 3, and Da Gama Road in Margate. “The first suspect, who is 42-years-old, was at his place of residence on Palm Road in Ramsgate when he noticed police entering his home and threw a black plastic through the window. The police checked the plastic and found 16 plastic packets of crystal meth and 15 large packets of methcathinone. The drugs are valued at R66 000. He was charged with possession of drugs,” Gwala said. She said that the team then proceeded to another house in extension 3, in Margate and arrested a 39-year-old man. “He was found in possession of 25 capsules of heroin, eight plastic bags of crystal meth and 14 and a half mandrax tablets. The recovered drugs are valued at R3 590. He was charged for dealing in drugs,” Gwala said. She said that the third suspect was arrested in Da Gama Road in Margate. “He was found in possession of a large plastic packet of crystal meth (70g) and a large clear plastic packet of methcathinone (50g). The drugs are valued at R26 500. The 29-year-old was charged with dealing drugs,” Gwala said. She added that police were also investigating if the suspects had legal documents to be in the country. They were expected to appear before the Ramsgate Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Also last week, the same unit arrested a 31-year-old man for possession and dealing in drugs. “The suspect was searched and was found with 26 plastic bags of crystal meth. The recovered drugs are valued at R6 500,” Gwala said. Another suspect, 36, was arrested in his flat busy packing drugs at his kitchen counter. “He was found in possession of 126 ecstasy tablets, 216 pink/clear capsules, five pieces of rock cocaine, 30 plastic wrappings of cocaine powder, 10 clear packets of cocaine powder, a full moon of rock cocaine and three large packets of cocaine powder.” “Police also seized R600 000 counterfeit R100 notes from the suspect. The recovered drugs are valued R54 000,” Gwala said. He was arrested for possession of drugs and possession of counterfeit money. Daily News