Durban - A multiple-vehicle collision on the N3 south-bound in Pietermaritzburg claimed the lives of at least sixteen people this morning. According to spokesperson for Netcare 911, Shawn Herbst, the emergency services were dispatched to the scene at the early hours of this morning. “At 03:11 Saturday morning, Netcare 911 responded to reports of a collision on the N3 south-bound between the Peter Brown and Chatterton Road off-ramps in Pietermaritzburg,” he said. He added that reports received indicated that two trucks, a bakkie, two minibus taxis and five other cars were involved in a collision, resulting in a fully-laden taxi bursting into flames.  When the emergency personnel arrived at the accident scene, the fire had also spread to the other vehicles, and engulfed the taxi with all its occupants. Herbst further stated that emergency personnel were left scrambling when another, secondary collision took place on the north-bound carriageway while they were on the scene. Many other motorists were injured and received treatment from the multiple medical ambulance services. Meanwhile, four people succumbed to their injuries and eight others, including two babies, sustained injuries ranging from moderate to critical following a car crash on the N2 north-bound before Spaghetti Junction just after 8pm on Friday night. The injured were stabilised on the scene before being transported to a nearby hospital in Durban for further treatment. According to ALS Paramedics Advanced Life Support spokesperson, Garrith Jamieson, paramedics together with Life Response arrived on the scene to find carnage after a SUV believed to be carrying an entire family went out of control and crashed into the rear of a truck. He added that the occupants were entrapped. “One male and two females from the SUV were found to be severely entrapped in the wreckage with fatal injuries. Unfortunately there was nothing paramedics could do for them and they were declared deceased on the scene.  “The eThekwini Fire Department utilised the jaws of life and other hydraulic tools to free them from the wreckage,” said Jamieson. The events leading up to the accident were unknown, however the South African Police Services are investigating. SUNDAY TRIBUNE