DURBAN -  Two suspects have appeared in court after they filled a vehicle with fuel worth about R1200 at an Engen garage in the Dawncliffe area of Westville, and then allegedly sped off without paying. The two were arrested on May 23 and appeared in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. A video of the alleged theft was shared on social media and resulted in a debate about how this type of crime could be prevented, and on a possible increase in such crimes due to the steep price of fuel. In the video, a petrol attendant is seen filling a vehicle with fuel as another vehicle joins the queue. The petrol attendant then hangs up the fuel pump and seconds after he closes the vehicle's fuel cap, the driver allegedly quickly drives away. The attendant is seen running after the vehicle while other attendants follow.   An Engen, Dawncliffe employee, who requested not to be named, said this was the second time this had happened. He said a year ago in the early hours of the morning a motorist had driven off without paying. With regard to this incident, the employee said it was unusual as the incident happened after 9am in the morning. He said the motorist had requested a full tank of fuel, which came to around R1200, then allegedly sped off. “We have to be more careful, especially at night when people request a full tank. It’s difficult to ask people to pay before they fill fuel because we don’t know how much it will come to,” he said. He added that with the continued increase of the fuel price, the frequency of such crimes might increase. The caption of the video stated that the attendant had thrown something and shattered the rear window of the fleeing vehicle. The employee said he believes the attendant picked up a stone as he ran towards the vehicle. “Luckily the robots were green, otherwise there could have been a serious accident as the driver tried to get away,” he said. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala said two 21-year-old suspects were arrested by Westville police for theft. “The vehicle was traced and located in the Mpumalanga area (Hammarsdale),” she said. One Facebook user blamed the government. “Blame the thieving government ... robbing us of our last bit of income for petrol. They can drop the levy and other taxes to help us but they won't. This is (going to) happen more often and then the attendant is responsible for the bill which I think is unfair.” Another said: “One thing can avoid this, all petrol attendants must ask a driver to give him/she car keys and fill petrol in the car. After that the driver must pay if he/she doesn't pay, they don't get the keys. Problem solved.” MOST READ: – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman critical after surviving sixth floor jump in Durban – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu – KZN Transport MEC sends condolences to families in N3 crash: 16 dead including mother who saved child from burning minibus taxi – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions THE MERCURY