DURBAN - MSUNDUZI Municipality is being held hostage by syndicates of cable thieves who vandalise the city’s key power infrastructure, leaving many parts of the province’s capital in darkness. Mayor Mzimkhulu Thebolla made the startling admission as he tabled his budget statement yesterday and revealed the city’s new tariff structure that will come into effect in July. He said the issue of power outages was not just due to load shedding. “Our city has been held hostage by cable theft and infrastructure vandalism. Of late, some parts of the city were left in prolonged power outages for days, not because of load shedding, but pure network failure because of cable theft. “These syndicates have multiple players involved, from petty criminals on the ground who dig up the copper cables and extract them to sell to dealers, to more sophisticated and organised structures of the trade,” he said. “The acts are committed within our neighbourhoods and communities, sometimes by people we know. They steal infrastructure such as copper cables and electrical equipment to make easy money, and with each incident, thousands of homes are left without electricity for many hours or days. “Businesses that have no access to generators must close and unfortunately lose money as they cannot operate during that period. Hence, we need all hands on deck and everybody must take responsibility to report criminals for the benefit of everyone,” he said. In his speech, Thebolla also spoke on the tariff increases: Property rates will go up by 8%. Electricity will rise by 7.47%. Refuse will increase by 5.8%. Sanitation will increase by 9%. Water will rise by 6%. Other rates are set to increase by 12.4%. Thebolla said the tariff increases were informed by national norms and standards, and that the utility prices for electricity and water were dictated by the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) and the Umgeni Water Board. The tariff increases, however, drew criticism from opposition parties, who said they were unaffordable for residents. Rienus Niemand of the ACDP said the proposed tariff increases were simply unaffordable. “The governing party has missed the perfect opportunity to say to the ratepayers who pay our salaries, ‘We will govern properly and our tariffs will be in line with inflation.’” DA caucus leader Ross Strachan said this was one of the most important budgets of this city's lifetime. He said the municipality must spend on priorities and ensure it received value for every cent spent. “The DA moves for all tariffs to be in line with inflation at 5%. We cannot continue to burden the already deteriorated rate base, especially in desperate economic times, and subsidise this municipality’s inability to govern its affairs accordingly,” he said. MOST READ: – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY