DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza told youngsters in the Children's Parliament that from among them will emerge the future MECs and members of Parliament. "Our premier started at a young age in politics, leading the youth league in the province. He was also seen as a leader in all provinces," said MEC Khoza. The young people spoke and offered solutions on a range of topics, including teenage pregnancy, social grants, education and unemployment issues. The Children’s Parliament sat in amid the commemoration of Child Protection Week. Premier Sihle Zikalala said: "I have attentively listened to all of you, and I am pleasantly surprised by the points raised," he said. Zikalala said the Children’s Parliament was a great training ground, and it should be taken seriously. "I am inspired by your debate. I want to credit the teachers who teach these learners for imparting such knowledge. You approached the podium with agility, confidence and knowledge," said Zikalala. MECs for Social Development, Arts, Culture, Sport and Recreation, and Agriculture all shared the sentiment that children should remain children and preserve themselves by not engaging in activities that can lead to teenage pregnancy and failure in school. “The high level of teenage pregnancy, sexual abuse of our children, drug abuse, child abuse, child trafficking and other social ills remain a serious concern. “With the high number of teenage pregnancy cases in this province, as the Department of Social Development, we have started profiling teenage parents to prevent teenage pregnancies and provide psycho-social support,” said MEC Khoza. MEC for Arts, Culture, Sport and Recreation, Hlengiwe Mavimbela reminded the children that not all of them will be scientists and doctors, but many will excel in sports and arts, and those fields are just as important. Zikalala encouraged the youth leaders to remain original and not to mimic others. "Be you. No one else can be a Zuma, Mugabe or Mbeki." The premier added that education system needs to evolve with the times, not generalise subjects but streamline according to what is relevant to today's market. MOST READ:  – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY