DURBAN - KWAZULU-NATAL Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza has called on law enforcement agencies to work around the clock to ensure the perpetrators of violence against women are brought to book after two shocking incidents took place over the weekend in the province. A woman was raped and brutally murdered in Nseleni near Empangeni, and an elderly woman was attacked in her home in Ndwedwe. On Sunday morning, a 24-year-old woman was found naked and with her throat slit near the Nseleni Library. In Ndwedwe, 64-year-old Fikile Magwaza was attacked in her home in the middle of the night and was beaten and strangled by her attacker. She managed to fight him off, and her neighbours came to her assistance. The suspect was taken into custody by the police. MEC Khoza said she was very concerned that children and women suffered such abuse while the perpetrators continue to roam the streets. She urged community members to work closely with the police and to share information that would help solve the murder case. “Fighting gender-based violence (GBV) is a societal responsibility, and we need to hold hands to end the scourge. “As the Department of Social Development, we are working with different sectors of society to fight GBV. However, we notice that such heinous crimes continue in society,” said Khoza. She added that the department had a team of social workers tasked with dealing with cases of gender-based violence, and encouraged victims to make contact with the department if they found themselves in abusive relationships. “Fighting gender-based violence is a 365-day programme, and we want society to work closely with the government. No one should sit in silence knowing that a woman or child is being abused,” she said. DA King Cetshwayo Constituency chairperson Muzi Mtshali said Nseleni had, for many years, gained notoriety for its violent crime, with little intervention from the authorities. “Recent SAPS oversights have shown how the government has allowed the police force to degenerate almost beyond repair. This must change if innocent lives are to be saved,” said Mtshali. Provincial SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said cases had been opened concerning both incidents. “A case of murder was opened at Empangeni police station to investigate the Nseleni murder, and charges of burglary, attempted rape and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm are being investigated by Ndwedwe SAPS,” she said. MOST READ:  – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY