DURBAN - Bishop Marothi Mashashane has issued a warning to the ANC following the formation of a new political party – the African Amalgamated Restorative Movement (AARM), which was launched on Wednesday. Mashashane, who has been a strong critic of some of the government’s decisions, including mandatory vaccination, said the new formation was aiming to restore the dignity of Africans in the country.  He said the launch, which happened as Africa Day was observed in many parts of the continent, marked the beginning of a new era that would bring about changes in the lives of ordinary people.  “The reason for the formation of the movement is that we have come to the conclusion that as long as the ANC is ruling the country, nothing is going to change for African people. We believe this is the start of removing the ANC from power,” said the bishop. He added that the movement was already receiving endorsement from several quarters, including traditional leaders.  “This is why we are confident that we will reach all parts of South Africa and bring the kind of change needed in this country,” Mashashane said. He claimed that the new formation had been endorsed by the Congress of Traditional Leaders of SA (Contralesa), a move which he said would propel the new party to greater heights. Contralesa was not available to confirm this. According to the bishop, the new party has its headquarters in Gauteng and for a branch to be formed it would take 500 members.  The birth of a new political party led by Bishop Marothi Mashashane aims to restore the dignity of Africans in SA pic.twitter.com/2Gs3XRD5iD  MOST READ: – Anger over missing eThekwini Municipality workers, colleagues unhappy with city response as search continues – Suspects arrested after vehicle linked to several cases of car theft in Durban, Ballito, uMhlanga spotted – Family ‘shaken’ by home invasion in Reservoir Hills, brazen gang forced their way in at gunpoint – Pedestrian killed, 15 pupils injured in Pietermaritzburg crash – Public Alert: Alleged robbery suspect seen wearing an IPSS jacket stolen from an officer THE MERCURY