DURBAN - The IFP has called for law enforcement to leave no stone unturned in finding the perpetrators responsible for the murder of former Verulam mayor and farmer, Sagadava “Manna” Naidoo. The body of the 74-year-old Naidoo was discovered in a cane field opposite his homestead in Canelands on Thursday after he was reported missing on Wednesday by his family after a suspected farm invasion. It was reported on Wednesday that Naidoo’s safe had been cleaned out and four of his firearms were missing. His bakkie was also taken. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala confirmed that charges of murder, house robbery and kidnapping were being investigated by the Verulam SAPS. “His hands and legs were tied with a rope. He sustained gunshot wounds to the head. The motive for the killing is yet to be established as investigations unfold,” said Gwala. Thokozile Gumede, IFP Member of the Provincial Legislature and member of the agricultural and rural development portfolio committee said that KwaZulu-Natal has become a haven for criminal activities and atrocities such as gender-based violence, the killing of izinduna and amakhosi, and the killing of farmers.  “The IFP feels that perhaps it might be time to seek external intervention. We are horrified by the murder of Canelands farmer, Manna Naidoo, whose bloodied body was discovered in a sugarcane field in the vicinity of his homestead, after he went missing. The body of the 74-year-old former mayor allegedly bore multiple gunshot wounds.” Gumede added that the IFP calls for the police to leave no stone unturned in their investigation.  “We believe that solving – and preventing – farm killings should be classified as urgent, as farming is essential to food security.  “With farmers already affected by floods, and soaring fuel prices, this incident adds further salt to their wounds.This incident will not only set alarm bells ringing among budding farmers but could discourage youngsters from joining the farming industry.” Gumede said that the IFP calls upon KwaZulu-Natal  Department of Agriculture and Rural Development MEC Bongi Sithole Moloi  to put preventive measures in place, instead of being reactive when disaster strikes.  MOST READ: – Vehicle hijacked in PMB found in KZN South Coast chop shop, suspects dropped victim off in Cato Manor – Durban Solid Waste worker dies in truck accident while on duty – Teen sisters speak of trauma after being raped during KZN house robbery, one of the rapists handed hefty sentence – eThekwini Water and Sanitation clerk, two service providers nabbed for fraud – Black mamba rescued in the parking lot of Westville office park THE MERCURY