Durban - Director and film producer Anant Singh said actor Jamie Bartlett, who died at the age of 55 on Monday night, was ‘known for the powerful performances he delivered.’ Singh said it was a great shock when he learnt of Bartlett’s death last night. The Durban filmmaker said he had the pleasure of working with Bartlett over three decades. “Jamie was a master of his craft and was known for the powerful performances he delivered in iconic roles he played in films and television shows,” he said. Singh said the first project they worked on was the Iraqi war-themed film “Bravo Two Zero” followed by the TRC film “Red Dust” in which he played an apartheid era security policeman; the thriller “Prey” and “Mandela: Long Walk To Freedom”. Singh recalls when he travelled with Bartlett and Archbishop Desmond Tutu to the Dubai Film Festival in 2004. He said the film “Red Dust” was honoured with a gala screening as the closing night film. In “Mandela: Long Walk To Freedom”, Singh said Bartlett did an amazing job of playing Madiba’s prison warder, James Gregory. “He researched the role intensely and gave a brilliant and authentic performance,” he said. Singh said  Bartlett's passing leaves a huge void in the industry, and he would be missed by his peers. “Jamie was a role model to young actors entering the world of film and television,” he added. Singh offered his condolences to Bartlett's family and friends. “My sincere condolences go to Jamie’s family and friends, and I wish them strength during this difficult time of bereavement. May his soul rest in peace,” he said. IOL reported that on the small screen, the well respected actor was mostly famous for his roles as Mike O' Reilly on SABC 3’s “Isidingo” and David Genaro on e.tv’s “Rhythm City”. He won the Best Actor in a Soap award at the South African Film and Television Awards on three occasions and was nominated five times in total. Eusebius McKaiser tweeted: “It feels utterly surreal. What a legend. A brilliant actor, and a real mensch. So many fun conversations to recall. RIP David Genaro, RIP Mike O'Riley, RIP Jamie Bartlett. Thank you ... for all of you.” The DA and the IFP also mourned the loss of the actor and offered their condolences. The DA said: “The DA mourns the passing of multi-award winning TV actor, Jamie Bartlett. We send our heartfelt condolences to the Bartlett family, and the entertainment industry. South Africa has lost a true talent. Rest in peace 'David Genaro'.” IFP said: “We offer our deepest and most sincere condolences to the friends, family & fans of multi-award-winning South African Actor, #JamieBartlett. May his soul forever rest in peace.” MOST READ: – Public Alert: Alleged robbery suspect seen wearing an IPSS jacket stolen from an officer Family ‘shaken’ by home invasion in Reservoir Hills, brazen gang forced their way in at gunpoint Big black mamba seeks shelter from heavy rains, flooding in Mariannhill property Water supply to KZN North Coast reduced after Avondale pump station damaged during weekend floods KZN takes another beating: OThongathi and uMdloti suffer severe damage to roads, houses, waterworks THE MERCURY