DURBAN - THE mayor of the Umziwabantu Municipality, Sboniso Zungu, said yesterday that authorities were trying to track down relatives of the 16 people who died on the N3 in Pietermaritzburg on Saturday. The 16 people were burnt beyond recognition after the minibus they were travelling in crashed into an overturned stationary truck and then caught alight. It is believed that the Toyota Quantum minibus was travelling from Gauteng to Harding. The crash was among three horror crashes on the N3 at the weekend. In two separate bus crashes yesterday, at least 18 people were killed in Heidelberg in Gauteng and Grootvlei, Mpumalanga. A 7-year-old boy was the sole survivor of the Saturday crash and among the deceased minibus passengers were nine males and seven females, including the boy’s mother. The KwaZulu-Natal transport department said the child was pushed out of the window of the taxi and rescued by a traffic officer before the vehicle burst into flames. Several other vehicles were also involved in the crash. The department said the boy was rushed to Northdale Hospital where he was being treated for internal injuries. Zungu said some people had come forward to say their family members might have been in the taxi, but investigations had not been concluded to confirm that. “We are still working with the taxi association to try and identify all those that were in the taxi. As much as the taxi was travelling to Harding, the commuters may be from neighbouring areas like Gugwini and Matatiele,” he said. Zungu said they were offering the affected families support, including counselling with the assistance of the Department of Social Development. Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula said the scale of the crash was terrifying and saddening. “This tragic crash occurred in the early hours of the morning, claiming so many lives and leaving a dozen injured. I convey my heartfelt condolences to the families and loved ones whose lives were cut short by this road crash. I am encouraged to hear that authorities responded promptly and the RTMC (Road Traffic Management Corporation) will investigate the crash,” Mbalula said. The head of the KZN Transport Department, Sboniso Mbhele, urged all motorists to approach roadwork construction sites with caution. It is understood that there were roadworks in the vicinity of the crash. MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison Neliswa Peggy Nkonyeni expressed her heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased. “My heartfelt condolences to the families of all the victims. I also wish those who sustained injuries a speedy recovery,” said Nkonyeni. Meanwhile, there were also two other horror bus crashes on the N3 yesterday. In the first crash, at least 12 people were killed when the bus they were travelling in rolled over on the N3 in Grootvlei, Mpumalanga yesterday. In another crash on the N3 near Heidelberg yesterday, at least 6 people were killed when the bus they were travelling in crashed off a bridge near the N3 Die Hoek Toll Plaza. ER24 said paramedics and several other services arrived on the scene to find a large bus on its roof on the side of the road. MOST READ: – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman critical after surviving sixth floor jump in Durban – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu – Teen sisters speak of trauma after being raped during KZN house robbery, one of the rapists handed hefty sentence – Durban Solid Waste worker dies in truck accident while on duty THE MERCURY