DURBAN - RACISM and discrimination in schools have been condemned following an allegation that a Michaelhouse pupil made a racial slur towards a pupil from the Gauteng-based St John’s College on Friday. The incident allegedly took place towards the end of a hockey match during the schools’ annual derby day. The rest of the event’s matches were cancelled after the incident came to light. Michaelhouse, which is in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands, said it was in the process of investigating the allegation, and both schools released a statement in which they said they condemned all forms of racism and discriminatory behaviour. Michaelhouse said it had immediately implemented a precautionary suspension in respect of the boy alleged to have made the racial slur, pending a formal disciplinary hearing. It said it was in the process of reviewing the footage from the day of the incident. DA KZN spokesperson on education, Imran Keeka said all allegations of racism that arose in schools must be thoroughly investigated. “While the department will conduct its internal investigations per its protocol, it’s our belief that the best place to ensure that a due and thorough investigation is conducted, with binding findings, is the South African Human Rights Commission.” Keeka said the equality court may also be approached to test the veracity of any claim and deliver judgment. IFP member of the education portfolio committee, Mntomuhle Khawula, said children needed to learn and understand that all people were made equal. “In this day and age to have something like this in our country is unacceptable,” said Khawula. The IFP called on the provincial and national departments of Basic Education to uproot racism in schools. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education had not responded to a request for comment by the time of publication. MOST READ: – WATCH: Two suspects appear in court over theft of fuel worth R1200 from a Westville garage – Durban motorist recalls how Good Samaritan saved her from attack by knife wielding robber at a traffic light – Kloof residents raise alarm over land invasions – KZN man shoots 2 sons dead, injures 3 others and turns gun on himself in dispute over new bed – Woman,42, killed in alleged drive-by shooting in KwaMashu THE MERCURY