Durban - A video of an alleged robbery suspect, wearing an IPSS Security jacket, has been circulated on social media with a warning from a Malvern homeowner, after the man was seen looking suspiciously into the yard. In the video dated May 23, 2022, a woman carrying a brown handbag is seen walking through an electric front gate of a house on Chrisway Road, in Malvern. The gate is still in the process of opening, when a silver vehicle is seen speeding down the road towards the house. The vehicle moves out of the range of the camera and the gate then begins to close. Seconds later, a man wearing a navy baseball cap, light blue jeans, takkies and a navy jacket, with IPSS branding, is seen walking towards the gate while adjusting his mask. He appears to stand behind the boundary wall, as he looks into the yard. He is also seen looking in the direction of where the car was believed to have been parked. The homeowner shared the video with a message, warning the public to be aware of the suspects. “Hi guys, please watch out for a silver VW, they stopped outside my property in Chrisway and were looking into the yard,” said the Malvern resident.   In a statement on Monday, IPSS Security Operations said it is aware of a video going around, of an alleged armed robbery suspect wearing one of the company’s branded jackets. “We can assure everyone this is not one of our members, these are the same suspects identified in a robbery last month, that occurred in Stanger. “During the incident, an unarmed IPSS Security Officer was assaulted and robbed of his uniform,” said IPSS Security. ALSO READ: – Family ‘shaken’ by home invasion in Reservoir Hills, brazen gang forced their way in at gunpoint MOST READ: – KZN takes another beating: OThongathi and uMdloti suffer severe damage to roads, houses, waterworks – LOOK: Road closures in and around Durban as red weather alert stays in effect – Heavy rains push Hazelmere Dam to risky high levels – Big black mamba seeks shelter from heavy rains, flooding in Mariannhill property – PICS & VIDEO: Heavy rains wash uMdloti waterworks and road infrastructure away, 14 rescued from a ‘compromised building’